establish.
the camera slowly moves across the room, picking up family portraits, and the photograph
of laura as homecoming queen. off camera leland can be heard softly humming. we pull
back, leland, stands in the middle of the floor holding a golf club preparing to swing... he
let's one go. the door bell rings. he walks off camera to answer it. it's donna and james.
donna, james, come on in ...
they enter the living room
we just came by to say goodbye to maddy.
oh, i'm sorry, you just missed her. i dropped her
off at the bus station not twenty minutes ago.
she's gone?
donna looks, at james, trying to get a read on his reaction.
yes. she thought you were coming by last night.
james and donna glance at each other.
did she say anything?
i'd have to say she was a little disappointed -
sarah calls from upstairs.
leland?
#2.008
he goes halfway up the stairs. donna and james look at each other.
i'm glad we were together last night, and i'm not
sorry we missed her, are you?
no.
leland returns.
you could try writing, i'm sure she'd love to hear
from you. do you have her address?
yes. sorry to have bothered you.
no bother, say hi to your folks for me, donna.
she nods, leland walks them to the door and they leave. from off screen ...
sarah's voice
leland? something else?
leland closes the closet door.
yes, dear?
sarah's voice
remember to sign us up for glenn miller night at
the club.
i won't forget. call you later.
leland turns to the door.
leland drives out of his driveway and down the street. he starts to sing.
revised 9-14-90, blue
#2.008
"chicks and ducks and geese better scurry ...
when i take you out in the surrey ...
when i take you out in the surrey with the fringe on
top ...
nosy folks will peer through the shutters ... and
their eyes ... will ... pop ...
revised 9-14-90, blue
#2.008
revised 9-14-90, blue
#2.008
close on a large plate of mashed potatoes being carried out to a customer. we pull back.
there stands vivian smythe, a woman of breeding, with the pearls to prove it. two steps
behind her is ernie niles, if class were a drive down the middle of a fairway, ernie pushed
it into the light rough. close, but no cigar. he carries a cellular phone.
mother?
norma sets the plate down in front of toad. vivian inspects it.
i trust those are real potatoes and not flakes.
real potatoes. what a nice ... what a surprise.
before toad can take a bite vivian reaches over, takes a fork from the counter and tests his
potatoes.
hmm, very good. i see they taught henry a skill in
the stockade. where is your charming husband?
hank's ... not here right now.
i see.
vivian starts to walk along the counter, checking out the place.
mother, if you don't mind my asking, what are you
doing here?
i wanted to introduce you to my husband. ernie, this
is norma. ernie's a financial analyst.
ernie waves from his cellular phone.
hi, how are you?
husband...?
revised 9-14-90, blue
#2.008 6.
we're honeymooning.
norma reels just a little. but before she has a chance to question or reply:
norma, could i trouble you for a cup of coffee?
norma nods, gets the coffee. vivian sits at the counter.
i just love what you've done to your little diner,
norma. the plastic flowers add such a nice measure
of cheer.
and the tablecloths are most attractive.
norma takes the coffee to ernie.
thanks so much - nice to see those good looks
didn't isolate themselves to one generation.
no, i need london gold figures, i've got a
trader in tokyo with petrodollars to burn.
damn... reception's terrible out here.
it went "roam" again.
norma rejoins her mother.
you still look very smart in that uniform, norma.
such a nice figure and you've kept it well.
mother, i don't mean to be rude; how long are you
going to be here?
in town? a few days. ernie wanted to spend some
time in the county. why?
i wish you'd let me know you were coming*
i didn't want you to make a fuss. you know me,
dear, i'm easy. what's wrong?
revised 9-26-90, green
#2.008 7.
nothing. there's a food critic coming and i'm a
little short handed, that's all.
food critic? oh, that's why you've tried so hard to
make everything look nice.
norma takes a shot at a smile, comes up a little short. ernie's off the phone, comes over, sets
his paper and cup down on the counter.
norma, looking forward to spending more time
with you. do they have cellular service in the car.
vivian, if it's all right with you we should check in,
there's a tokyo fax wait for me at the desk.
we'll be at the northern, dear. sorry we missed
henry. i'll call later.
vivian and ernie leave. norma picks up the paper ernie left behind. notices that he wasn't
looking at the dow jones, but rather the spread sheet from the usa today sports section
where he has circled his choices with a magic marker. we can see "houston, 3 1/2, take the
points."
cooper and truman step through the great northern lobby. cooper speaks quietly, into his
recorder.
diane... 10:00 a.m. at the great northern. i've just
been in a hotel room with the one-armed man... or
what's left of him. in another time, another culture,
this man would have been a seer, a shaman priest...
possibly a leader. in our world, he's a shoe peddler,
and lives in the shadows.
as he speaks, cooper notices someone up ahead. he pauses, shuts off the recorder. it's
leland palmer.
leland palmer.
close on leland, holding a golf club, doing a soft shoe routine for a group of entralled
cheerleaders. he slowly slides his foot around in a wide circle. cooper and truman
exchange a look. they stop and watch. leland finishes, the girls applaud. he sees cooper and
truman, starts over.
revised 9-14-90, blue
7a.
#2.008
does he know we've arrested ben horne?
doesn't look like it.
best that he hear it from you.
harry nods, leland arrives.
#2.008
harry, agent cooper.
it takes harry a moment to get it out.
leland, we've arrested ben horne for laura's murder.
he hasn't been charged yet, but we're holding him.
ben? there must be some mistake ... i thought
jacques renault ...
no.
is there a strong case against him?
i think so.
i see.
leland seems to be struggling with powerful emotions.
are you all right? mr. palmer?
the law will handle this.
as it should be.
thank you, harry.
#2.008
leland turns and walks away. cooper and truman starts out, then stops, turns around and
watches leland walks around the corner. he senses something but isn't sure what.
#2.008
ben horne sits on the bunk in his cell holding a pillow and sniffing it. it's clearly disgusting
the detention area door opens, ben stands up, jerry horne is led in to see his brother. he
carries an enormous brief case, stuffed with papers.
jerry, what the hell took you so long?
they stand and look at each other through the bars for a moment.
date lines, time zones, i don't even know where i
am. god, you look terrible.
the deputy opens the cell door. jerry hands him a small japanese flag. jerry, steps inside. the
deputy closes the door and leaves. the brothers look at each other for a long moment.
jerry ...
ben ...
they suddenly embrace long and hard, then step back.
ben, since your regular mouthpiece has been charged
with murder himself, i'm going to handle your case
personally. let's get started: did you kill her?
jerry!
sorry, you're right, the last thing a good defense
attorney needs to know is the truth.
can you get me out?
they, can only hold you for 24 hours without
charging you ... or is it 48.
#2.008
jer, i'm in trouble here!
under control big brother. okay, so where are we
saying you were the night laura died?
i was with catherine.
not a good choice.
it happens to be the truth.
oh dear, any sign of her? bone fragments, teeth, a
charred corroborating note regarding your
whereabouts?
i'm so depressed.
a dejected ben sits down on the bottom bunk. jerry starts to bang his head on the bunk bed.
he suddenly realizes what his head is hitting.
bunk beds.
he jumps up onto the upper bunk, stretches out. neither says a thing for a moment.
do you remember our first room, ben?
yes ...
me on the top bunk, you on the bottom ... louise
dombrowski dancing on the hook rug with the
flashlight ... lord, what's become of us?
what is that smell?
revised 9-14-90, blue
#2.008
jerry takes an enormous ginger root out of his pocket and hands it down to his brother.
ginger root. i'm supposed to take a bath in it when
i get home. then dry my right side with my right
hand and my left with my left hand. cures jet lag.
little trick i picked up from a geisha named meko.
she boiled my shirts. wish you'd been there, ben ...
she had the cutest little feet.
ben looks at the strange shaped root, breaks it in half.
lucy walks into the station house, several steps behind is her sister, gwen, a gum
snapping, dyed hair, walking and talking disaster area. she carries her new baby.
... no, the first time i went in they thought it was my
bladder, and they wanted my urine. infection? i
hadn't been near a rusty nail. you remember that
time my toe turned purple? so instead i took a bath
in baking soda. my toe came around but i got the
worst cramps, like you swallowed a kinked hose -
hawk walks by.
hawk? have you seen andy?
before he can answer ...
oh, you must be that native person i've heard so
much about. eagle eye?
hawk. sister?
gwen.
god, after all we've done to you, how you must hate
us white people.
hawk looks at gwen. dead pan.
revised 9-14-90, blue
#2.008
some of my best friends are white people.
revised 9-14-90, blue
#2.008
close on the sharp point of a small surgical instrument.
this won't hurt a bit.
we pull back. doc hayward is about to take a blood sample from ben horne's index finger.
jerry and truman look on. cooper stands back in the room, out of the light.
sheriff, i protest this brutal treatment of my client.
after all this man has done for this town.
hayward looks at jerry, jabs the lancet into ben's finger, a bit harder than is usual.
ow!
hayward smears blood onto a slide he sticks a cotton ball on ben's finger.
i'll have results in a couple of hours.
hayward leaves. jerry tries to take charge.
gentlemen, i demand that my client be released or
charged. never! in all my years practicing law have
i witnessed such complete and utter disregard for an
accused man's constitutional rights ...
from the corner of the room comes...
jeremy horne, gonzaga university 1974, graduated
last in a class of 162, passed bar on the third
attempt, licence to practice revoked in illinois,
florida, alaska
revised 9-14-90, blue
#2.008
hey, i'm not on trial here.
sit ... down.
jerry does. from the shadows, cooper tosses laura's diary onto the table, then steps into the
light.
do you know what this is, mr. horne?
a ... book.
look at it closely.
he does.
a ... diary.
cooper lays out a playing card - a one-eyed jack. they stare at it.
we know all about one eyed jacks ... so did laura.
cooper picks up the diary, reads from it.
"i'm going to tell the world about ben horne. i'm
going to tell them who ben horne really is."
but she never got the chance, did she?
come on, ben, we're all grown-ups here ... a wild,
young girl like laura. things spin out, of control.
she becomes a threat. not just to you, your business
... your family.
ben explodes, stands up shouting.
revised 9-14-90, blue
#2.008
you are out of line!
maybe you don't have anything to hide?
that's not what it says in here -
you can't talk to me like this!
it's all jerry can do to control his brother.
ben, ssshhh, ben, let's sit down, nice and easy, right
here.
truman steps around the table and helps ben into his chair.
sit down, mr. horne.
they all try to catch their breath for a moment.
gentlemen, i'd like a moment alone with my
brother, with my client. ... if you don't mind.
truman looks at cooper, he nods "yes".
you have your moment.
cooper picks up the diary, and exits the room with harry. jerry rubs ben's shoulders.
ben, ben, ben ... if you're going to blurt out a
confession our options shrink down to a tiny little
nub.
what do we do?
jerry walks over and sits across the table from his brother.
revised 9-14-90, blue
#2.008 17.
your alibi has been roasted, they can establish
motive. and your blood may have laura's finger
prints on it.
they look at each other, think a moment.
ben, as your attorney, friend and brother ... i strongly
suggest that you get yourself a better lawyer.
ben's eyes grow stalks.
close on a dual cassette deck. as the cassette spins in one deck, we pull back. bobby briggs
looms above. he holds a small micro-recorder to the built-in microphone of the cassette
deck. ben horne's and leo's voice's are heard from the micro-recorder.
burn the mill?
keep it simple. insurance investigator should read
"arson," block letters, about uh, six feet high.
the deal we discussed?
the rest on delivery.
bobby turns off the dual recorder and his small micro-recorder, his fingers dancing over the
tape decks. he removes the cassette from the deck and lays it on the table.
that's ben horne's voice... ben horne and leo ...
think, bobby.
shelly calls from the other room.
bobby! ...
bobby picks up a pen and writes a note in big black letters. "i think we should talk." he then
slips one of the cassettes and the note in a large envelope, seals it, gives it a kiss. bobby turns,
shelly
#2.008
stands there, covered in baby food. bobby smiles wickedly, walks over, removes a glob of
food from her neck with a long sensuous lick. shelly doesn't seem to notice.
he did it again ... it's your turn to clean him this
time.
bobby cools off. shelly walks over to the table, fingers the envelope.
what's this?
our ship.
what?
since our cash cow in the other room has turned into
a sink hole ...
i've decided to pursue a career in business.
really? ... like a salesman?
i'm thinking management.
shelly's eyes light up.
oh, bobby, that sounds great.
he reaches her, picks her up and sits her on the table.
you're going to have everything you've ever wanted.
bobby moves in for a kiss.
a cloth diaper service.
bobby freezes: how did i get into this mess, and how do i get out?
revised 9-26-90, green
#2.008 19.
close on the face of the one-armed man, lying in bed. his eyes are closed, he seems to be
resting comfortably, then begins to twitch. his eyes suddenly open. "mike" is back. we pull
back, a nurse, sitting next to the door.
he's close ...
the nurse hears him, puts down her knitting, walks over to him.
could you get me some ice water?
she hesitates a moment, then nods "yes." his eyes follow her as she walks out of the room
and closes the door.
the nurse exits the room, walks over to a deputy sitting across the hall from the door. she
tells him she's going for the ice and walks off. the deputy gets up, walks toward the door.
pov of the deputy, as he reaches the door, pushes it open, and enters. the bed is empty,
curtains blow in an open window.
gerard/mike steps out from the shadows behind the door. we pull back as he raises a blunt
instrument in the air and brings it down on the unsuspecting deputy's head. voices are heard
in the hallway, mike turns, looks toward the open window.
we move in, the curtains blow wildly in a gust of wind, as the nurse's scream echoes
through the great northern.
fade to black.
#2.008 revised 9-14-90, blue
#2.008
hank jennings enters the diner, stops when he sees norma behind the cash register.
hi, norma. guess i'm a little late.
48 hours is not late, hank, it's missing.
he grabs an apron, starts to put it on as he sweet talks her.
sorry, i had some business i had to take care of.
business? no, this is a business hank. a business is
where you go every day whether you feel like it or
not.
norma -
save the sweet talk. i am this far from telling you
to take a hike.
#2.008
please. please don't make that kind of judgment
without hearing me out.
she looks at him, still seething. he sees a crack of daylight.
norma, because of the bad choices i made, there are
people out there, people from my past, who want to
see me fail. i've tried fighting them. that just got
me in more trouble. i've tried running, but there's
always someone faster. i know it's no way for a man
to live his life, bur sometimes it's best just to hole up
and wait for the storm to pass. i didn't mean to hurt
you, i'm just trying to keep my head above water ...
maybe next time, you should ask for help.
they look at each other for a moment.
next time i will.
norma smiles. hank turns, comes face to face with norma's mother.
so, the prodigal son returns.
vivian. you ... look ... great.
prison treat you well?
that's a long story.
why don't we hear it over dinner tonight? the great
northern, say ... eight-thirty.
we'd love to.
revised 9-20-90, pink
#2.008
i don't know if i can get away.
it'll be fine, honey, we'll be there, eight-thirty sharp.
vivian smiles, looks at hank, exits. norma gives hank a look.
hey, she's family, norma.
norma walks to the kitchen. we move in on hank, the wheels turning.
establish.
close on truman, looking intently out the window through binoculars. a beat. a throat
is cleared behind him at the office door. it's pete martell. a little uncertain, hat in hand.
harry?
hello, pete.
whatcha got?
woodpecker. pillared, i think.
a pillared woodpecker. outstanding.
harry...?
truman turns from the window, sets the binoculars upon his desk.
revised 9-20-90, pink
22a.
#2.008
what's up?
josie's gone.
i know.
i came back from the late shift. she left a note on the
kitchen table. no goodbyes. no explanation. a note.
she sold the mill to ben horne.
well, not exactly...
you don't have to explain.
i loved her. there, i said it. no offense, harry.
i loved her too. i stood there and watched her go.
watched her assistant carry out her bags.
assistant?
asian fella. never seen him before? lee?
what'd he look like?
average height. medium build. pony tail.
that was her cousin. jonathan.
revised 9-20-90, pink
22b.
#2.008
she said he was her assistant. british accent -
this guy could barely speak english.
pete, this was the same guy.
harry, i've got a bad feeling.
i'm right there with you.
just then: the door opens, cooper hurries into the room.
harry!
gerard's escaped from the hotel.
you'll have to excuse me, pete.
i'll put out an all points.
revised 9-20-90, pink
#2.008
he won't get far. if he does, maybe he'll lead us to
"bob."
cooper and truman make a hasty, exit. pete remains behind, forgotten. a beat. he reaches
into his jacket pocket, pulls out a small tape recorder. then, steeling himself for what is to
come:
ben horne...
cooper and truman bolt out of harry's office and exit the station. a moment later andy
walks in and comes face to face with lucy, carrying her sister's baby. neither says a word for
a moment, andy can't take his eyes off of the child.
lucy ...
what?
andy's eyes widen, then he passes out cold. the baby breaks into a wild fit of crying.
the door to the cell area is opened, pete martell peeks his head in and looks around,
clearly not comfortable in a place so devoid of wood. he cautiously steps inside. ben's been
watching.
step right in pete. we desperate criminal's are all
safely locked in our cages.
pete walks over, tests the door to the cell, makes sure it's locked.
i have a message for you.
ah, greetings from the boys down at the mill?
pete grunts his disapproval, then takes a small cassette player out of a pocket in his jacket.
this sparks ben's interest, though he won't show it.
revised 9-20-90, pink
#2.008
but first, a little music ...
he starts to turn away, pete turns on the tape.
catherine's voice (tape)
hello, benjamin ...
ben freezes, then swings around, too stunned to speak.
cat got your tongue?
ben looks at pete, who smiles.
sorry i haven't dropped by for a visit, dear, but i
have a strong aversion to prisons.
she's alive.
benjamin, darling, you don't look too well, why
don't you sit down?
he does.
how often i've thought of you. you and that night
we spent together lost in love ... when was that? yes,
i remember, it was the night laura palmer died. it
seems so long ago, almost like a dream. memory's
so unreliable finally, maybe it was a dream, maybe
it never happened. to tell you the truth, i can't be
sure anymore.
ben springs out of the bunk over to the bars.
what does she want? i'll pay it ... anything.
pete chuckles.
in exchange for my testimony, you will sign the mill
and ghostwood estates back over to me. i will
consider letting you keep your precious hotel.
revised 9-20-90, pink
#2.008
you okay there, benjy?
ben's pale as a sheet.
a representative of mine will come to you with the
documents within 24 hours if you won't cooperate,
i'm confident you'll go on from here to excel at one
of the many fine career opportunities offered by the
federal prison system. ben, so nice to see you again.
that catherine ...
she set me up. she set me up.
she's a caution, isn't she?
pete leaves. we move in on ben, a slow burn. he turns around, grabs a pillow from the bed,
wildly attacks the bars with it.
no!... no .... no ... no ... no ... no ... nooooo!
we pull back, feathers floating everywhere. ben stands in the middle of it. lost for the first
time in his life.
big ed hurley's pickup truck swerves wildly down the middle of a country road.
cooper sees the oncoming car in their lane before harry.
are driver education programs compulsory in your
school system?
revised 9-20-90, pink
#2.008
harry has seen it, nods "yes."
yep ...
think we've got a drop out. look out, harry!
the truck doesn't pull over, harry drives off the road. they're startled, but neither they or
the car are damaged. they look at each other a moment. did they see who they think they
saw?
big, ed?
close on big ed behind the wheel.
the sheriff approaches from behind, lights and siren blaring. ed smiles, waves to them, obeys
their instructions to pull over to the side of the road.
road - day
truman and cooper step out of the bronco, as does ed out of his truck.
harry, agent cooper, are you all right?
we're fine, ed, you?
i'm fine. i was, was just on my way out to the club
to break in out some new irons. boron. graphite
shafts. i started thinking about laura. i guess my
mind wandered.
it's a good practice to leave your troubles behind
revised 9-20-90, mink
#2.008 27.
when you sit behind the wheel of a vehicle.
yes, of course, you're quite right. my apologies.
truman and cooper are ready to leave it there.
oh. oh, i did remember something. as you'd
asked? the night laura died. i was working late at
the station. around ten. ben horne shows up in his
fancy car. he looks real agitated, talking to
himself. i heard him say something about a 'dairy.'
a dairy?
yes, i think so.
a diary?
that might've been it.
ed notices that cooper is looking at the back of his pickup. truman's radio crackles with a
call. he goes to answer it.
are you a golfer, agent cooper?
yes. i enjoy its precision.
may i show you my new clubs?
ed walks over to the back of his pickup. ed picks up a club, as if it were a weapon, turns, and
starts toward cooper. truman steps out of the bronco.
they found gerard, near the waterfall.
let's go get him.
revised 9-20-90, pink
#2.008
he turns to ed, who abruptly stops.
ed, afraid i'll hive to take a look at those clubs
another time.
i understand. anything i can do to help, please let
me know.
we will..
cooper and truman get in the bronco and drive off. ed watches them, then begins to laugh
wickedly as he walks back-to the rear, throws the club inside.
he climbs in behind the wheel, looks in the rear view mirror. it's "bob."
revised 9-14-90, blue
#2.008 29.
hawk walks through the station doors escorting gerard, who's one arm is handcuffed to his
belt. as they pass the reception area we pick up lucy putting a cold compress on andy's
forehead. her sister sits next to them holding the baby, keeping up a running dialogue.
- the same thing used to happen to me when i first
got pregnant, i'd be out shopping, and boom, pass
right out in the produce section, then come to
covered with bruises and crushed fruit and strangers
standing over waiting to see if i was dead; people
want terrible things to happen to you, i know -
andy, who's been attempting to follow the story stares at gwen for a moment, then turns to
lucy.
i want to talk to you about my sperms.
sperms, that's all men think about; i remember when
little kal was born they laid him on my breast
i looked down and saw what kind of a tiny creature
we were dealing with and i thought, good god, just
what the world doesn't need, another sperm
running around loose, women beware.
they both stare at her.
well i did.
i had mine counted. twice. the first time they
were all dead.
if i had a nickel for every time i heard that.
the second time they were jumping like salmon
swimming upstream.
so of course all you could think of was spawning.
#2.008
they both turn to gwen.
andy/lucy
shut up!
she moves away. andy and lucy turn to each other.
so when you told me that you were pregnant i didn't
think it could be me because mine were all dead
supposedly at the time.
uh-huh.
but they got better. i was misinformed.
i'm the father.
oh brother ...
aren't i?
they look at each other. lucy puts her head in her hands.
ben horne stands in the middle of the dimly light room. the one-armed man slowly circling
him like a blood hound. cooper, truman and jerry horne are also in the room. gerard
stops, pale and weak turns away from ben, sits, speaks softly to cooper and truman.
he has been close ... bob is not here now ...
jerry moves to them.
sheriff, isn't there something you'd like to share
with us?
gerard stares at him.
#2.008
and would you please ask this guy to stop staring at
me like i'm a dog biscuit?
gerard wipes his forehead, growing weaker.
bob has been very close.
who's bob? i don't know a bob.
do we know a bob?
sheriff, no offense, but clearly this man's stairs don't
reach all the way to the attic. now your 24 hours are
up; you either charge my client or let him.
hawk walks into the room, hands truman a note. he reads it then hands it to cooper.
truman walks over and leans on the table, glares at ben.
i'm charging you with the murder of laura palmer.
good move, jerry.
no, no ...
hawk, take mr. gerard back to the hotel. nail the
windows shut, i want two men on his door
hawk takes gerard and escorts him out.
no ... no ...
they leave. ben cooly eyes truman.
you two bit lumberjack, you're finished in this town!
be quiet!
everyone is. cooper looks at harry and smiles.
revised 9-14-90, blue
#2.008
harry, i think we better talk outside.
truman hesitates, finally nods yes, and walks out, followed by cooper. jerry starts to rub
ben's shoulder's, speaking softly in warm soothing tones.
cooper and truman step into the corridor.
harry, i think we're saddling the horse here before
we're ready to ride.
i don't follow.
i don't think ben horne killed laura palmer.
what?
we should release him.
coop, look, i've tried to help you every step of the
way, i've stood by you. but i have had just about
enough of giants, dwarfs, dreams and throwing rocks
at tibetan milk bottles. somebody does a crime,
it's my job to lock 'em up. and i cannot in good
conscience let a man walk from my jail who i think
is a killer! i can't do it.
cooper looks at harry, smiles.
you're right. this is your backyard. sometimes an
outsider can forget that.
cooper pats harry on the arm. walks away. we move in on truman, wondering how and
why he won that battle so easily.
revised 9-26,90, green
#2.008
establish.
close on hank, gnawing on a huge beef rib, staring at ernie. vivian takes a bite of her
salmon, tastes it carefully.
firm ... fresh ... just a little overcooked.
mine too.
hank smiles, barbecue sauce on his chin.
just right.
norma stands. the evening is not going well.
will you excuse me for a moment?
i'll join you.
ernie stands as they leave. hank hurriedly rises as well, wiping off his chin.
ladies ... hurry back.
they leave. ernie stands for a moment then sits back down. hank sets down the rib. they
study each other for a moment.
you're not going to say anything, are you? if vivian
ever found out i was "inside," she'd leave me flat.
hank begins to chuckle.
ernie niles. ernie "the professor" niles.
so... when .. did you ...?
revised 9-26-90, green
#2.008 34.
couple weeks. but let me tell you ernie, without
you to pal around with, those last six months were
sheer hell. nobody to go to the library with...
nobody to stamp license plates with...
hank puts a hand on ernie's shoulder, gives him a rough shake. ernie tries to smile, but
hank clearly makes him nervous.
so what's the angle here with miss moneybags,
anyway?
there's no angle.
come on, buddy, we never had any secrets. vivian's
rolling in dough.
vivian and i met at a republican fundraiser. we're
married.
you musta told her some tall tale. a whopper.
i am trying very hard to tell nothing but the truth
these days. it's therapeutic.
vivian wants me to handle all her investments.
what about yours? you gonna introduce her to your
loansharks?
i'm out of it, hank. i don't gamble anymore. i go
to meetings. i go to church, too.
so does vivian know you ran off with the
congregation's picnic fund?
i would never steal from a church. it was a savings
and loan. i was sick, it was an illness and i've paid
my debt. it's a new life. a clean slate.
revised 9-26-90, green
#2.008 35.
so she doesn't know.
you know, ernie, this is interesting to me because
family is the most important thing in the world to
me. and one must be prepared to pay any price ...
to protect it. wouldn't you agree?
i completely agree.
we'll talk some more, ernie. i always enjoyed our
talks out in the yard - man to man, prisoner to
prisoner.
norma and vivian return, ernie rises abruptly. hank more leisurely.
we're back.
i'd like to propose a toast ... to the newlyweds and
their happiness.
thank you, henry. what a nice gesture.
to ernie and vivian ... may the future bring them
much success.
... in all their future dealings.
they all drink, hank gulps his. we move in on norma watching hank and ernie's reaction.
she senses something's up.
moving slowly down the hallway toward a door, we stop, room 315.
#2.008
we pull back from the curtains, blowing in the wind, pass over an untouched piece of pie,
stop on a shirtless cooper, changing the dressing on his wound, still wearing his shoulder
holster. he picks up his mini recorder.
diane, 11:05, pm. great northern hotel. not a
star in the sky tonight. ben horne's in custody. if
the great northern grieves it bears its sadness in
silence ... the trail narrows, diane. i'm close, but the
last few steps are always the darkest and most
difficult ...
a gust of wind wildly blows the curtains. cooper, turns looks at it, there's a knock on the
door. he turns off the recorder, picks up his gun from the table. cautiously walks to the
door. opens it. audrey stands looking at a shirtless cooper, holding a gun.
audrey.
they look at each other for a moment.
can i come in? talk?
of course.
she enters. cooper reholsters his gun, audrey looks at his wound.
is that where you got shot?
yes.
she wants to reach out and touch it, but doesn't. then embarrassed, turns around and looks
out the window.
you arrested him?
yes.
did he do it?
#2.008
that's for the court to decide.
what do you think?
what i think ... doesn't matter right now.
did you arrest him because of... what i said?
only in part.
but i helped.
yes.
all i ever really wanted was for him to love me.
i'm sure he does.
he's ashamed of me ...
no.
agent cooper, when i was at one eyed jacks, i
never ... i never let anyone ...
you don't have to say anything.
just so you know -
#2.008
i know.
she looks at him longingly. starts to reach out to touch him. the phone rings. pause.
i have to get that.
ok.
cooper answers the phone.
hello.
where? how long ago? i'm on my way.
he hangs up, reaches for his shirt. audrey senses the seriousness of the call.
what's wrong?
audrey, want you to go to your room and lock the
door. stay there.
why?
no questions. do this for me.
she looks into his eyes.
all right.
water rushing, misting. a pool near the bottom of the falls. flashlights. hawk, cooper,
truman. ambulance attendants. a body, alive or dead we're not sure, being pulled from the
water and laid on a stretcher.
#2.008
coop ... it's maddy ferguson.
they watch the stretcher being carried away.