cleanup and commotion after the kidnaping. a smoky haze in the air. deputies clean up
the mess windom earle left behind.
pageant girls enter for questioning. they pass andy brennen and lucy moran
in mid-conversation.
- and the lights went out. i kept thinking: the lights are
going out, the lights are going out and then they did and
it all went black. and then i kept thinking: what about
hand signals? what good would they do us now? and the
baby. what if the lights when out in hospital, and you
were in the elevator?
then i'd help you have that baby right there in the
elevator in front of god and everybody.
they kiss. andy whispers romantically.
it's a map, lucy.
what?
i figured out that the puzzle was a map not a puzzle. i
solved the puzzle.
how?
suddenly i saw all the pieces come together. it was sort
of like that old game show, "concentration?"
cooper hovers over the hieroglyph/map. hawk and a second deputy stand to the rear,
#2.022
impassive. truman hurries to join them. more bad news.
earle got away. nobody saw him or annie. sorry,
coop.
we know it's a map, harry, but of what?
the giant and the little man from my dream are there.
are they telling us to go somewhere? damn it, where?
maybe we should try to find earle's cabin.
that's not where, he is - there's no time.
pete martell busts into room. furious and shouting.
grand theft, auto. the log lady stole my truck.
68 dodge truck. powder blue like the dust kicked up at
sunset. i tried to run after it till i saw those beautiful tail
lights turn and head up the road towards -
the woods. ghostwood national park.
truman looks at the map with new eyes. instantly.
here's something, coop.
twelve trees in a perfect circle. there's a place like that
up in ghostwood, it's called glastonbury grove -
glastonbury. that's the legendary burial place of king
arthur.
king arthur's buried near here?
no, in england. this feels right, harry, let's get up
there.
#2.022
they hurry to the door. the deputies fall into step.
hawk, get major briggs from the infirmary, and see if he
can help you find earle's cabin.
you'll find leo johnson there. maybe he can tell us
something about earle -
call the state patrol, i want a dragnet in those woods
leading up to the grove, then you meet us up there -
cooper stops at the door. edgy.
harry, i can't ask you to go.
stow it, coop. let's roll.
they exit.
nadine hurley blances a large ice pack on her head, mind thoroughly elsewhere.
mike nelson escorts doc hayward to the door.
twenty minutes on, twenty minutes off. that should
reduce the swelling. don't forget the aspirin.
thanks, doc.
hayward exits. mike steps back to nadine, settles on the couch beside her. nadine stares
straight ahead, into the dim future.
does it hurt much, baby?
who?
mike lifts the ice bag, gently kisses the growing knot on nadine's head.
#2.022
i'm sorry you lost.
who?
god, nadine i was so worried about you. i admit there
were times when i had my doubts about what we meant to
each other, but seeing that sandbag hit you, i knew that
i'd practically do anything for you.
who?
i love you. there i said it and i'm glad.
mike gently cups her chin, turns nadine's face toward him, offers a passionate kiss. but
nadine pulls free, looks at him with complete surprise. and a palpable lack of recognition.
who are you?
mike.
you try to stick your tongue down my throat and then, as
some sort of explanation, you say your name is mike?
what the hell are you doing in my house, anyway?!
you, you brought me here.
bullpucky. take a hike, bozo.
nadine swats at him. mike braces for a powerful blow only to fend off a feminine slap. ed
and norma walk in the front door.
ed, get over here, this kid's trying to molest me.
what's she doing here?
#2.022
nadine?
put those muscles that aren't between your ears to work
and give this punk the heave-ho.
mike, ed, and norma stare at her.
norma, if you don't mind, ed and i have business to talk
about. not that it isn't just peachy to see you.
nadine pauses to look around the living room. as if to see it for the first time.
hey. where're my drape runners?
a beat. ed steps forward. gulp.
nadine, how old are you?
what kind of stupid question is that?
humor me. how old are you?
thirty-seven, you moron.
good answer.
pete martell's pickup is stopped on the side of the road.
windom earle behind the wheel studies a map of the forest. next to him is annie
blackburne.
#2.022
glastonbury grove. should be right up that path.
plenty of time.
he watches annie come to from the chloroform.
hello, sleepy head.
boo!
who?
think of me as cancer. or a heinous virus. something
you can die from - horribly.
i am about to cow you for your own mortification.
windom earle.
she turns away. earle reaches over. pulls her hand from her pocket. a rosary is in her hand.
oh, man, what a cheater! sister mary holy water crams
for finals.
(grabs the rosary and tosses it out the window,
slides closer to her)
hey, you want to know something? cooper's birthday is
april 19th, 1956. that means his moon is in aries. get
it?
this is lost on annie. earle goes into a rage.
you don't get it, do you, you pathetic little professional
shut in.
on the other hand, i've just spent two weeks in a cabin
with a smelly head of cabbage.
has anyone ever told you you look a lot better than leo
johnson? smell better too.
#2.022
if you're going to kill me why don't you get it over with?
oh, we have much bigger plans than that, my pretty.
earle reaches below his seat, takes out the miss twin peaks crown and places it on her head.
he kisses her passionately. she struggles. earle laughs.
i tell ya, doll, if i was ten years younger and could find
the heater in this truck - boy, oh, boy. having some fun
now.
he opens the truck door.
won't you join me for a gambol in the grove?
he drags annie out of the truck, and into the woods.
truman's cruiser skids to a stop behind pete's pickup. cooper runs to the truck, feels the
hood.
still hot. they're close.
andy, we've found the truck, get the patrol up here i want
the search centered from where we are now.
there's a short cut to the grove up through here.
cooper checks his watch.
11:45.
we still got time, coop.
to fear the worst often causes the worst. he's going to
#2.022
terrify her, harry. he did it to me. it's what he did to
caroline. face to face with all that's intolerable. all
that is evil.
he can't terrify anybody with a bullet between his eyes.
it's this way.
i'm right with you, harry.
earle and annie enter the circle of twelve trees. then earle circles her, stalking.
what are we doing here?
a momentary pause in limbo, dear. please be patient.
pity young dale will miss all the fun. i always felt we
were sort of lodge brothers.
he'll find you. he'll come for me.
do you see him anywhere? huh? huh?
annie seems very calm, closes her eyes, whispers prayers to herself.
prayers? what a revolting development.
earle checks his watch. frustrated. she's not scaring.
truman and cooper move quickly along a path.
harry, all my skills, intuitions and dreams have led me
#2.022
to the threshold of what is completely unknown. led me
in a direction i never could really see. in spite of earle's
prideful insanity. in spite of my best reasoning, only one
truth is clear. whatever is, is right.
i'll take it from here, harry. alone. cover me.
this is how it's supposed to be.
truman stops. realizes the truth of what he's saying.
go. go.
cooper races ahead.
earle and annie in the dark grove.
you and i have an appointment at the end of the world.
"toot, toot, 'board." this where it ends and the fun
begins. get ready for first class despondency and
madness. the bewitching hour looms brightly.
if only young dale had lived to see it.
he's not dead.
oh, cooper's dead, alright. gone and soon forgotten.
good riddance to bad rubbish. didn't i mention it? i
meticulously splattered his brains across the back of the
roadhouse just before we left.
poor studious little dale. never saw it coming. not
even time for one of his pithy observations. you see, he
was too busy looking after you. left himself wide open.
no... no....
same thing happened the last time, when he fell in love
#2.022
with my wife -
i took the boy right to the edge that time, opened him up
like a zipper. six months to put back all the pieces -
caroline, the unfaithful whore, she died quickly. much
better than she deserved. don't be so prissy. there's
nothing serious in mortality. renown and grace come
afterward. in fact, they come right here. here in this
place the nectar of life will be drawn.
earle moves towards her. annie screams, terrified. behind her the doorway to the lodge
begins to open, a hole in space. earle is crazed with joy. a benediction.
"i tell you they have not died. their hands clasp yours
and mine."
annie turns and seems to be trying to run away, getting nowhere.
annie's pov
a kindly smiling mother superior nun seems to welcome her ... annie moves
towards her, sobbing ... the nun turns into earle, who grabs her by the wrists and pulls her
towards the gaping hole, just as ...
... runs into the grove.
cooper's pov
windom, not dressed in costume, pulls annie through the hole.
cooper runs to earle, grabs his leg but it slips away and disappears into the hole.
... rushes into the grove. too late. only to see cooper disappear into the hole and it closes
up after him.
no... god... no.
#2.022
truman stands alone in the circular grove waiting for what he doesn't know. andy runs up
behind him.
agent cooper ... agent cooper.
this scares the hell out of truman. andy notices the horse costume leaning against a tree.
sheriff, look.
stay away from that, andy.
but andy is already over there.
no. no. there's a note in the horse's mouth.
truman goes cautiously to him. andy takes out the note and a net drops on top of him.
what's the note say?
"don't look a gift horse in the mouth."
leo the prisoner sits there with the string holding the bag of spiders. he tries to yell for help
and the string begins to slide through his teeth. he chomps down harder on it.
he tries something else. he slides the chair out from under him. it falls away but he has no
more room, has gained nothing. he is left in a squat with no support.
establish.
#2.022 revised 2-28-91, blue
morning. andrew packard tip-toes through the lodge to the mysterious key enshrined
beneath the glass bell jar atop catherine's desk.
i've seen this somewhere...
andrew has an idea. he rifles through the desk, finds a large ring of keys, tagged for easy
identification. mill office. cadillac. tool shed. and last... twin peaks savings and loan. he
lifts the jar, fingers the key, holds it up for closer inspection, compares it to the first. same
make, same model.
the savings and loan!
just then: the sound of the kitchen door opening. andrew tears the tag off the second key,
places it under the bell jar, [pockets the first. he looks up to see pete, eyeing him with
disapproval.] and pockets the first. andrew hurries out of the room. a beat. catherine
enters, tip-toes like her brother toward the desk. she looks left and right, makes certain no one
is watching. then gently lifts the glass bell jar.
[pete]
[oh, andy...]
donna hayward carries a small suitcase into the living room, eyes red from crying.
eileen hayward follows in her wheelchair.
listen to me. please.
i've already heard enough. okay, mom?
but if you'd just let me explain -
both pause. ben horne stands in the center of the living room.
donna.
leave me alone.
donna, it's not your parents' fault. it's mine.
#2.022
my parents? who exactly is that supposed to be?
i only wanted to do good. to be good.
tell the hardest truth first. that's what i did. and it
seemed appropriate, it felt good to tell the truth at last.
but i was wrong. you were all better off when i devoted
my time to lying, cheating, and stealing. and as for
me...
doc hayward enters, weary, holding his medicine bag, and sees this tableau before him.
hayward darkens.
oh, dammit, ben...
will, i have agonized and i have meditated and i have
prayed.
ben, please.
donna, go to your room.
ben, i warned you. get out of my house.
can you forgive me, will? after all i've done to you?
forgive me. please forgive me.
ben steps to him, as if to embrace. hayward grabs ben by the lapels, forces him from the
room. chaos follows.
will!
leave my family alone!!
daddy!
hayward shoves ben toward the door. ben reaches a hand toward donna, desperate, as if her
#2.022
shout was meant for him. ben falls, strikes his head on a coffee table. donna screams.
hayward kneels beside him.
oh, lord...
donna, get my bag.
donna!!
donna takes one last look at ben, the pool of blood forming beneath his head. and races from
the room. eileen wheels closer, pales. hayward kneels an prays.
i'm sorry, ben. my god i'm sorry. ben, ben can you hear
me...?
hold on ben's face for a beat. silent.
start close on agent cooper, his face filled with wonder. he occupies a dark space,
limitless.
annie?
his voice echoes. no reply. then a bright lights shines, and the guardian, cowled in
shadow, stands before him.
where am i?
a ripping sound. a flash of bright light.
suddenly cooper finds himself in a shabby motel office, a raging wind outside,
slamming doors, shaking windows. at the reception desk, a clerk, wearing a bizarre
orthopedic brace, a tracheotomy plug in his throat. the clerk speaks, as if to answer cooper's
question:
home.
#2.022
is this the black lodge?
name, please.
suddenly ten years old. a smallish boy in shorts and shirt.
dale cooper.
the desk clerk nods, inscribes. cooper has returned to his adult self. the change a flashing
metamorphosis, back and forth. cooper reorients, reacts. the desk clerk has vanished.
an old man stands in his stead. solid, kind in aspect and appearance. cooper pales.
father...?
there are fresh towels in every room.
father, listen to me. i need your help.
cable tv. including three adult entertainment channels.
please.
and a fruit basket with our compliments.
father!
a beat.
you will need a key.
the old man takes a key from a rack, holds it out to agent cooper.
i love you.
#2.022
cooper reaches out to receive it. he touches the key, and...
a blinding flash of light.
then darkness.
#2.022 17.
major briggs leads deputy hawk through the woods.
i remember sunlight pouring through tall trees...
a common sight in these woods, major.
i can smell it.
what?
the drug windom earle gave me has apparently
heightened my sense data. shapes, colors, smells. i am
bombarded, and yet...it's as if my brain were better able
to interpret and define reality.
wow.
you might want to have doc runs some more tests when
we get back.
no, no. i'm fine. i imagine this must have been what the
sixites were like.
follow me.
briggs now trots through the pines, a man on a mission. his brain filled with bright new
information. hawk follows.
my god the flowers, can you hear them?
no.
the wind passing through their petals has a distinctive
#2.022
quality quite different from the pine boughs above us.
look. there we are. this way.
briggs bounds into the distance.
leo furiously works at the string in his mouth, trying to increase his grip on the lifeline. his
hands tug at the shackles, remain bound. leo looks at the string with crossed eyes, sees that his
saliva is causing it to weaken and fray. leo emits a little humming moan.
suddenly: footsteps outside the cabin. hawk and major briggs charging forward. leo
reacts, hopeful. the door bursts open, hawk enters first, gun in hand. briggs follows. leo
can't help it, he sighs, smiles -
hi -
- whaaaaaa!!
the cabin exterior. leo screaming. the sound of hawk and briggs rushing to the
rescue. gunshots. more screaming.
audrey takes determined steps toward the savings and loan, carrying a small black doctor's
bag.
audrey steps through the interior. she is greeted by the savings and loan's unctuous manager,
dell mibbler.
audrey. horne. this is a welcome surprise...
morning, mr. mibbler.
#2.022 revised 2-28-91, blue
audrey walks right past him, toward the bank vault to the rear.
is there something i do for you? miss horne?
at the vault bars, audrey sets down the black bag, digs inside it.
as a matter of fact, there is.
audrey pulls a long length of chain from the bag, runs it through the vault bars.
i want you to call the twin peaks gazette.
er, miss horne...?
ask for dwayne milford jr. he's the editor.
audrey wraps the chain around her waist, attaching her torso to the vault bars. she removes a
wicked looking padlock from the valise.
dwayne milford jr...
miss horne, if i may ask a simple question -
tell him that audrey horne has chained herself to the
twin peaks savings and loan vault to protest their
financial ties to the ghostwood development project,
and that she intends to stay here until a town meeting is
held to debate the future of our environment, and,
specifically, the effect of the ghostwood project upon it.
audrey pauses to snap the padlock in place. she smiles at mibbler.
could you get me a glass of water please?
andrew steps through the interior, spots savings and loan manager mibbler speaking
heatedly into a telephone. [pete toddling along behind him. he spots saving and loan
manager mibbler speaking heatedly into a telephone.]
#2.022 revised 2-28-91, blue
dell mibbler, as i live and breathe...
mibbler looks up from the phone, blanches. his day goes from bad to surreal.
you ... you...you ... you...
andrew [pete]
yes, dell. it's me. alive. [he's alive.]
you look fabulous. and the funeral, well, the flowers, the
boy's choir, it...
i was hoping you could do me a small favor.
anything.
does this look familiar to you?
it's one of our safety deposit keys.
shall we?
of course. there is one small problem...
andrew [and pete] stops short, sees audrey chained to the vault bars.
andrew [pete]
hello, young lady. [audrey.]
hello. [hi pete.]
[young lady, w]why are you chained to the bank vault?
#2.022 revised 2-28-91, blue
civil disobedience.
ahh. "waste no time arguing what a good man should be.
be one." marcus aurelius. i admire your verve.
i see no problem here...
if you'll excuse us, please?
sure.
mibbler sighs, reaches for a large ring of keys, opens the vault door. audrey scoots forward,
allowing andrew room to enter.
did you call the gazette yet? the sheriff too, probably.
ask for agent cooper
mibbler throws up his hands, mutters off. audrey calls after.
and don't forget the water!
andrew runs his hands along the wall of safety deposit boxes, finds the matching number. [pete
worries at his side.]
[pete]
[i'd feel a whole lot better about this if we let catherine in]
[on our little secret.]
[andrew]
[(enjoying the pun, eyes on deposit box)]
[oh, for pete's sake. isn't it time you stood on your hind]
[legs and howled like a man?]
[pete]
[frankly... no.]
[inside the vault, andrew sticks the key into the safety deposit box.]
#2.022 revised 2-28-91, blue
21a.
catherine martell hurries in the savings and loan entrance.
inside the vault, andrew sticks the key into the safety deposit box.
catherine races toward the bank vault.
andrew!! you promised me!!
[mibbler returns to audrey with a glass of water.]
[mibbler]
[miss horne, is there anything i can do to convince you to]
[give up this doomed enterprise?]
[audrey]
[(takes the water)]
[not really. sometimes a woman's got to do what a]
[woman's got to do.]
[mibbler]
[but i'm still not certain exactly what it is you're doing.]
andrew turns the key, opens the safety deposit box. a hissing sound is heard. andrew
is momentarily startled. he sees a note that reads: got you, andrew. love,
thomas.
audrey looks up [at mibbler], sees catherine running toward her. [flashes a winning,
memorable smile.]
#2.022
the savings and loan explodes, windows shattering outward, glass raining down upon the
sunny street.
truman sits on a rock near the circular grove, staring into the now-closed gateway, a mask of
determination. andy approaches circumspectly. pause.
you sure you don't want anything to eat?
no.
'cause i could call the diner they could bring something
out.
if you're hungry, andy, call. i don't want anything. i'm
not moving from here until we know where they went and
when they're coming back.
okay.
andy wanders back down towards the cruiser. truman continues to stare at the grove.
truman's pov
near the center of the grove the air seem to shift shape, move and alter.
truman stands, moves closer.
a gleaming white shield appears in the oscillating air and from behind it a hand
holding a silver sword.
truman is mesmerized.
he now sees that holding the shield and sword is a tall, dark woman, wearing a glittering
chain mail. she sees truman, holds the sword out towards him.
oh my god... oh my god.
#2.022
in a loud snap, image of the woman vanishes and we ...
a dark, ominous version of the great northern. everything in black and white, including the
checkboard floor. cooper turns a corner and starts towards us, moving cautiously, glancing in
all directions.
looking ahead, he sees someone approaching him. he moves closer and realizes it's a version
of himself, dressed identically, identical in every detail, but upon closer scrutiny realizes the
figure's face is smooth and blank, his eyes gleaming, lifeless and black as ebony, no white
cornea visible.
a door swings open to cooper's left and another to his right. looking through the left door he
sees windom earle far down a corridor, beckoning to him.
looking through the right door he sees annie.
annie!
the door slams in his face.
#2.022
cooper struggles with the door, can't open it.
windom earle's voice
you're going about this all wrong, dale.
cooper stops, tries to locate the source of the voice.
windom earle's voice
we'll profit not at all from resisting what there is to
experience here. that much i do know. still, an entire
life of research and contemplation can't begin to prepare
one for the actual experience of being here.
where are we?
windom earle's voice
speaking for myself, i'm up here. no, up here.
cooper looks up. earle is floating ten feet off the ground some distance away.
think of us as astronauts. and when you do, think of us
fondly. i could hazard a guess at the physics but why
spoil the fun?
what is this place?
where do you think we are, dummy?
the black lodge.
earle points the shock remote at him and presses the button: a burst of energy hits cooper and a
loud buzzing sound is heard.
good answer. i've always hoped my endless hours of
mentoring might contribute to the development
of a fertile mind. you were such a dullard, coopy, such
an earnest, plodding, do-gooding eagle scout - it was
all i could do sometimes to keep myself from
#2.022
general principle!
you were too smart for me, windom.
don't prostrate yourself, dear boy. you're a tool, a useful
one, granted, but it can't very well be said that we play in
the same league, now can it?
you were always looking for this.
that's right. and what were you looking for, in your
endless perambulations? oh, i know all about those three
"missing years," tibet and your pathetic eager-beaver
globetrotring quest for enlightenment. in that one respect
we aren't so radically different. perhaps that's why i've
tolerated you for as long as i did. because i knew that,
one day, you would prove useful.
useful for what?
why do you think, silly boy? for fun.
he points the remote at him again and presses the button. a blinding flash of light.
cooper comes to, lying on the floor of the red room. he rouses himself, looks around.
hearing someone humming.
where am i?
a crude, hand-painted sign falls into view. it reads: pittsburgh, stupid. the sign flies
up out of sight.
cooper locates the source of the humming: a woman in a pretty dress stands with her back
to him, at a sink in a small kitchen area.
#2.022
caroline ... oh my god ... caroline?
no response. the humming grows louder. cooper advances on the figure.
caroline?
the humming stops. the figure tenses but doesn't turn. cooper moves closer.
caroline, it's me ... it's dale.
cooper is right behind the figure. he slowly reaches a hand out, touches the figure tentatively
on the shoulder. we hear a low growling and then the figure turns. it's annie. as
caroline.
dale, oh my god, you startled me. i thought it might be
windom.
thank god you're here, i've missed you so much.
i've missed you too.
i've been so frightened. i had the most terrible dream.
what was it?
i saw the face of the man. the face of the man who killed
me.
cooper draws back.
i know who it is. it's the same man who kidnapped me,
the man who gave me the drug. it was windom, dale. it
was him all along.
cooper stares at her.
what's the matter? don't you believe me? it's my
#2.022
husband. he's the killer. he's the one i saw. we've got
to stop him.
you said the face of the man who killed you.
did i? you must be mistaken. i'm alive.
pause. cooper seems close to tears.
... annie?
who's annie?
cooper looks around. speaks to the unseen earle.
leave her alone. tell me what you want, just leave her
alone.
a spotlight comes up on earle, in top hat and tails. big band music. earle sings.
"long ago a glimpse of stocking was looked on as
something, now heaven knows, anything goes."
the light blacks out. cooper turns back the other way and sees ...
a shadowy figure ...
...lurking behind annie, in a slouch hat, holding a long, thin gleaming medical instrument.
windom...
windom looks up from under the hat and winks at him, then directs cooper's attention to
another part of the room where ...
a distraught earle ...
... sits with two police officers, describing a crime scene.
i came in the door. there was blood on the kitchen
#2.022
floor. i followed it into the living room ... that's where
they were lying ...
cooper looks over and sees ... annie, pale and quite obviously dead, lying in the arms of
cooper's "double" ...
i thought they were both dead. i knew that because i
stabbed them myself.
earle reveals the medical instrument. blood on its tip. the double opens its black, lifeless
eyes and stares at cooper.
don't do this. don't hurt her. tell me what you want!
cooper and earle are standing side by side.
that's more like it. sorry to put you through that, old
boy, but i did need to secure your cooperation. don't
worry about your girlfriend. she's alive, of course -
what do you want?
actually, i need you to volunteer for something. a
mission for a man of singular quality -
tell me.
come along with me.
he opens a door. gestures for cooper to precede him. cooper does. earle follows.
nt. throne room
a black and white doctor's office. plain. non-threatening. two steps lead up to a dentist's
chair on a elevated rostrum.
#2.022
some people, i won't name names, they call the place
hell. i don't have to tell you what they call the other
place. needless to say, they've got it all backwards.
this is the place of power. the other's a revolting
mixture of milk-curdling sentimentality and bland
acquiescence to the cosmic equivalent of good table
manners. see, there's annie.
he points casually to a medical supply cabinet, where annie is trapped, alive, behind glass.
in case of emergency, break glass.
here's the deal, dale. throne room. windom.
windom sits on throne. windom king. windom happy.
problem: windom need to make deposit first. that's
how it works. windom can't make deposit all by
himself. windom un-happy.
what kind of deposit?
here's where the designers show their ingenuity. in return
for the best seat in the house they want something in
return. guess what: voluntarily offered, no strings
attached, by its owner and operator ... the soul of a good
human being. naturally something i have in very short
supply.
that's where you come in.
you'll let her go. you'll let her live.
why, dale, it's as if you read my mind.
all right, let's do it. now. fast.
lovely. stand over there.
a light illuminates a single square of the black and white checkerboard floor. cooper moves
#2.022
to it. another light illuminates the dentist chair. a third hits annie. everything else goes
black. earle moves to the dentist chair, sits and sing happily.
"back in the saddle again, out where an indian's your
friend, where everything is green and you can pee right
into the stream ... back in the saddle again."
a rumbling sound. something approaching. earle sits back and claps his hands like an
excited child. a door opens. a man in a version of a white dentist's smock enters,
pushing a covered tray. we can't see his face. he stops next to the chair.
oh goody.
suddenly clamps spring out of the arms and legs of the chair. another slithers around
windom's neck while yet another gags him.
the dentist uncovers the table, revealing an array of loathsome medical instruments. the
dentist picks up a particularly nasty one, a huge syringe, and turns to face them ... it's killer
bob. earle squirms, screams. we hear bob's voice, but his lips don't move.
bob's voice
if you know what's good for you, and you do, don't
move.
the fool broke the rules: it's really no good if you don't
volunteer. doesn't count if you're coerced. he'll have to
be punished and he will be ...
of course that doesn't mean we have to let you go. this
is for extracting.
bob grins and is about to use the syringe on cooper when a hand reaches in and stops him.
they both turn to look and see ... laura. alarm on. bob's face. a sound of two
tremendous energies colliding. a white light fills the room. cooper looks to annie,
who's calling for him silently.
fighting off fatigue, truman moves around, stretching. looking back to the grove he sees
someone lying in its center. truman runs to them. it's cooper and annie, both unconscious.
#2.022
cooper? cooper!
andy, get that ambulance up here right now - cooper?
he realizes there's blood on annie's blouse. cooper opens his eyes.
coop, you okay? coop? you okay?
cooper slowly shakes his head and closes his eyes again. sound of a siren in the distance.
wearing pajamas, cooper lies in bed. doc hayward and truman attend him. cooper opens
his eyes again.
here he is.
coop ...
where am i?
your room at the great northern. annie's gonna be okay.
she's in the hospital.
pause.
you've had quite a shock. everything checks out, though.
you're going to be fine.
i can't tell you how worried we were. i saw you
disappear. god almighty ...
i'd like to brush my teeth.
okay, sure, good.
let me help you up.
#2.022
they help him to his feet.
thank you.
cooper walks slowly to the bathroom and closes the door.
cooper looks at the sink, at his personal effects, he picks up the toothbrush, squeezes some
toothpaste on it and lifts it to his mouth. he holds it in front of his mouth, looks into the
mirror and smiles brightly. looking into the mirror, staring back at him, is the face of bob.