close on the death mask laying on the desk. next to it, the tape player is
broadcasting the voice of windom earle. pull back to reveal cooper sitting
opposite truman - both listening.
earle's voice
now, dale. listen carefully. it's your move. and please, put your heart
into it, will you? i've noticed a certain tentative quality in your thinking, as
if your mind were occupied with issues other than those on the board
before you. such preoccupation not only weakens one's resolve, but one's
foresight as well. a deadly failing in any match, you must agree. but in
this particular contest, quite disasterous, as we play for grave stakes, the
likes of which you have no doubt surmised.
print your move in tomorrow's paper. or i will make it for you.
cooper, i'm not letting you out of my sight.
if windom wanted to kill me, i'd already be dead. get
pete on the phone.
lucy, call pete martel, tell him to get over here, then call
the paper, find out the latest possible deadline for
tomorrow's personal column.
truman turns off the intercom looking up at cooper. but cooper's staring at the mask...
she was beautiful.
she was the love of my life.
andrew packard and catherine martell sit at the kitchen table, sipping
coffee. in the background, pete's in the kitchen on the phone.
okay, lucy, tell harry i'm on my way.
he hangs up, and picks up two plates of food, eagerly scurries in from the kitchen,
serving catherine her breakfast first, then andrew, who looks down and bursts out laughing.
#2.016
on his plate are scrambled eggs with a smiley face made out of crumbled bacon. toast
points make the ears.
pete, salt and pepper?
nobody knows, the trouble i've seen...
eyes twinkling, slave to catherine's every whim, pete softly sings. andrew laughs all over
again.
please, god help me, please, confine your singing to the
shower. salt and pepper...?
okay, poodle, comin' right up.
pete goes into the kitchen, still laughing.
you two bring out the worst in each other.
pete's a prince of a man.
a court jester, more likely.
pete returns with the salt and pepper shakers, wearing his hat and coat.
i gotta mosey.
he and andrew try to slap the other on the head, each ducking out of the way - their age-proof
goodbye, then pete, in a burst of familial enthusiasm, kisses catherine on the cheek.
goodbye, sweet packards!
he leaves. catherine looks at andrew, unable to hide her distaste.
catherine, catherine... i'd always halfway hoped that age
and time would mellow the tempest raging inside you.
#2.016 3.
(pushes her breakfast away, takes a lemon out of
the fruit bowl, slices it)
watching you two act like the hardy boys always brings
on stormy weather. what's happening with ghostwood?
i spoke with our investors, the meeting's set. i fly to paris
tomorrow.
andrew... i've been thinking... about a shopping mall.
near the industrial park?
no, right next to the great northern. adjacent to the
new hotel i want to build.
i'm sure ben will... appreciate the competition.
i think it's the least i can do, don't you?
oh, good. company.
the back door opens and josie walks in carrying a bundle of kindling. she stops cold,
staring at andrew - it can't be. she drops the wood, and moves closer, eyes wide with horror.
dear josie. i'm home. did you miss me?
josie passes out cold. neither andrew or catherine move. pause.
she seems surprised.
poor thing. couldn't even pull off a simple murder.
she has her charms, though.
true. but not for long.
#2.016 4.
harry looks down at a seattle newspaper featuring jonathan's photo and
the headline: "no clues to killer." truman loathes his own suspicions. there's a
knock on the door. hawk opens the door wide, making enough room for himself and
hank, who hobbles in, handcuffed to his crutches. truman tenses, in no mood for this.
hello, harry.
hank makes a mock attempt to shake hands - making a point. truman gives him a long look.
save it, hank.
jeez, did you get up on the wrong side of the bed this
morning? i broke parole! cry me a river.
you crossed the border into canada, we have photographs
of you consorting with felons at dead dog farm and i'm
charging you with the attempted murder of leo johnson.
ouch. okay. well. i think it's safe to assume that i was
at the diner the night leo was plugged, but you're
welcome to -
i've got a witness puts you at the scene with a gun in your
hand. you are one cat that just used up his ninth life.
harry, you obviously seem serious about this, so i'm
going to modestly propose a trade. how about
information leading to the arrest and conviction of
andrew packard's murderer. hank jennings, witness for
the prosecution.
no deals.
you're going to tell me you care more about the
attempted murder of leo johnson, felon, than you do
about andrew packard? how's that gonna go over with
your constituents -
#2.016 5.
you're through in my town, hank.
my guess is, harry, not too well, especially once people
find out who pushed the button on andrew and that you've
been sleeping with her -
truman goes white with rage. pause. hawk kicks out one of hank's crutches, he goes down.
gee, i sorry.
hank's on the floor, gasping with pain.
get him out of my sight.
hawk hurries to remove hank. truman collapses in his chair: it can't be true.
close on the table: morgue photos and vicuna coat samples on the table.
albert rosenfield pulls out two plastic envelopes, both contain a single bullet.
this is the bullet we removed from you ...
... this one was excavated from the dead man's skull.
he indicates a morgue photo of the back of jonathan's head.
same bullets, same gun, same killer. let's go get her.
albert, hold your horses.
coop, i appreciate any reluctance you might have for
busting your pal's old lady, but the woman ventilated you
and left you for dead -
i don't take it personally. what about the gloves, powder
tests?
#2.016 6.
news at five.
fine, maybe you're not mad, but there's an epidemic of
multiple gunshot wounds following this chick around.
she's a menace.
pause. cooper moves to the door.
i'll talk to her. maybe she'll confess, turn herself in.
maybe she'll grow wings and join the circus.
audrey, dressed for success, walks across the lobby carrying a stack of manila file folders
to the concierge desk, where the concierge, emile lazare, officiates.
emile, i've got a list of all our "non-repeat" guests. we're
going to send them a special invitation from the great
northern.
emile shoves an audrey name tag toward her as she sits down. he smiles thinly,
supercillious:
your enthusiasm brings a salty tear to the eye. however, i
think you will find my job requires more than tight
sweaters and a perky attitude.
emile, i'm learning the business, every week a different
department. i don't want your job.
i look forward to your stint in housekeeping.
this came for you this morning. good luck, miss horne.
you'll need it.
emile turns his back and walks away. audrey glares after, hurt, angry. she rips open the
envelope. a voice intrudes:
wheeler's voice
excuse me, i just checked in to room 215...?
#2.016 revised 12-19-90, blue
congratulations.
wheeler's voice
... they told me at the front desk i should talk to -
what can i do for you?!?
audrey finally looks up, right into the smoldering eyes of john justice wheeler -
full on knock-down-drag-out handsome. wheeler meets her glare with a friendly smile.
simple, uncomplicated.
sorry. i thought you were working.
i am working. see?
audrey slaps her hands through the papers and files atop the concierge desk. tantrum
exorcised, she looks back to the handsome stranger, manages a more business-like mien.
audrey ... horne?
at your service.
good. i need a fax machine installed in my room as soon
as possible.
(grabbing paper, pen; she wants to get this over
with)
i can handle that.
and i'm wondering if you could send somebody out to
the airport. i'm carrying some heavy equipment on this
trip that they didn't have room for on the van.
what flight were you on?
#2.016 8.
my own. it's the only jet out there. shouldn't be too hard
to find.
audrey looks at him - blue jeans, t-shirt, cowboy boots - a jet!? she deadpans:
is there anything else i can do for you, mr. rockefeller?
no. that's all for now. thanks.
wheeler steps away. audrey takes a closer look. wheeler pivots, smiles.
i have a picture of you. little dirndl skirt, white apron,
long braids. unbelievably cute.
i don't wear dirndl.
you did then. right here in the great northern dining
room. if i close my eyes i can almost see it. audrey
horne as "heidi". unforgettable.
"heidi"?
i was ten. how did you...? hey!
too late. wheeler's gone. audrey watches him step through the lobby, anger now leavened
with curiosity. a beat. she looks down at the envelope. pulls out a vertically torn piece of
paper, reading part of a poem:
i have dreamed
walked so much
i have to do now
phantoms and a ghost
ghost who walks
of
with it, a separate invitation: save the one you love. please attend gathering of angels
tonight at the roadhouse, 9:30. audrey looks up, sees wheeler get into the elevator.
fade out.
#2.016 9.
ed is reading the newspaper when nadine bursts in the front door.
nadine, what are you doing home from school?
are you feeling poorly?
eddie, we have to talk.
okay.
they sit on the sofa. long pause.
i just feel like... more and more... like we're... you
know.... kind of... well... growing apart?
i've noticed that too.
oh eddie, i better tell you before you hear it from the
kids at school. mike and i are in love.
in love.
#2.016 10.
i hope you're not hurt, i wouldn't want to hurt you for
anything in the world, honest, you have to believe that. but
mike and i... on the wrestling trip, we had the most
magical night together.
all night?
well, you and norma did it!
that's fair. so nadine, what does this mean?
eddie, we have to call a spade a spade. we're breaking
up. and as soon as my parents come home, it'd probably
be best if you moved back in with your folks. eddie... i
am so sorry.
ed nods. he's not, but he's straining not to show it.
josie and cooper sit on the couch. josie's fidgets nervously, won't look cooper in the eye.
josie, this is your last chance to level with me about what
happened in seattle.
i told you, how many times do i have to say it, i escaped
from jonathan at the airport. after that, i don't know
what happened to him.
do you understand that i could arrest you right now?
josie cowers.
catherine is glued to the door, listening to every word. delighted.
#2.016 11.
i'm here as a friend... of harry's. i don't know what place
he occupies in your heart, but i know you own his.
wouldn't you want a chance to try and explain this to him
before -
please go.
josie looks away. cooper stands.
there's nowhere for you to run.
i'll give you until six. if you're not at the station house by
then, i'll come back for you.
he leaves. josie doesn't move, the noose tightens.
catherine pretends to have just come in the back door. she sashays through the living room.
josie! i just saw agent cooper leave, was this a social
call?
josie doesn't respond, staring into space.
dear, you look awful. is everything all right?
i don't feel well.
i'm sorry. well, i wish i had better news. i've spoken to
mr. eckhardt again, on your behalf. he's not entirely
unsympathetic, but he does insist on seeing you alone.
tonight.
he'll kill me.
#2.016 12.
to tell you the truth, my biggest worry is what he'll do if
he finds out that andrew is alive. won't mr. eckhardt
think you betrayed him?
but of course you can always plead ignorance; after all,
you did think andrew was dead.
josie holds her head, truly being driven crazy.
catherine, please. help me. i don't know what to do. i
feel like i'm going mad...
josie, you're going to have to face mr. eckhardt sooner or
later. tell him the truth. tell him anything you desire.
just pray he'll believe it. now where did i leave my
keys....?
catherine rustles through a draw desk drawer, reveals a handgun. she grabs her keys, steps
away. josie pauses, stricken, eyes locked on the weapon. a beat. and she reaches for it.
catherine stops to glance back at josie from across the room. she smiles.
thomas eckhardt, hands his assistant, jones, a stack of cash. her suitcase is
open on the bed.
the entire amount.
i trust you'll finish the job, regardless of what happens
tonight.
surely you of all people know what happens when my trust
is violated.
he pulls a garotte out of her bracelet, wraps it around her wrists. kisses her.
check out. drive north, for a day. i'll wrap up my affairs
and be gone by morning. come back tomorrow night and
finish up.
yes sir.
#2.016 revised 12-19-90, blue
order has been restored. around the conference table are the great northern
ben, audrey, and jerry, who is making black olive paste canapes.
bobby briggs stands next to ben's desk, hanging up a phone.
no answer, ben. he must be on his way.
thank you, lad. join us, will you? board meetings are
usually nothing more than a gathering of self-minded
individuals more intent than the next on financial
gain. but today, well, today will be something
completely different.
bobby hurries to his seat. audrey smiles at the new eager beaver, as the door opens behind her.
ahh. here he is now. jack, you're a sight for sore eyes.
are we taking good care of you?
audrey reacts, stunned to see the man with the jet, now dressed in a beautiful armani suit.
ben embraces wheeler like a long-lost son. wheeler smiles at audrey.
my luggage just arrived. thank you, audrey.
you two have met?
briefly.
john justice wheeler. used to work construction, came up
the hard way.
how nice for him.
#2.016 revised 12-19-90, blue
jack, take a seat, you know brother jerry, of course, and
this is my executive assistant, young bob briggs.
wheeler sits down between bobby and audrey. audrey takes a wary look at the stranger. he
returns a smile. jerry passes his canapes around. and ben clears his throat, begins:
i've asked mr. wheeler to our board. years ago, i
invested in him, a pittance he built into an empire. i take
no credit. but i believed in jack, even when he was just
another local boy pounding nails. i have asked him to
return the favor by believing, in me now.
wheeler nods assent. ben pauses with requisite drama, at least long enough for jerry to finish
chomping on a rather hefty canape... and begins:
horne industries incorporated have fallen on hard times.
the mill and ghostwood lands are now solely owned by
catherine martell. we don't begrudge her the mill, it was
and is, after all, hers. but we sweated blood to make
ghostwood ours for a doggone decade. retail revenues at
the department store are down fourteen percent. and as
for the hotel, well, let's just say it's off-season and leave it
at that.
ben, over in sicily, i had a marketing brainstorm. we set
up a special package deal: twin peaks, land of crime.
see where laura palmer was murdered, see where her
body was found, visit maddy ferguson's final resting
place; i call it the homicide getaway -
#2.016 revised 12-19-90, blue
everyone looks at jerry like he's lost his mind.
thank you, jer. we'll put it on the agenda for further
review.
but in spite of these reversals, stripped of the trappings of
success, what are we left with? the human spirit. i've been
taking a good hard look at my own soul, and i've decided
it's high time ben horne gave something back to society.
ben, not the hotel.
no. not the hotel. what's the greatest gift one human
being can give to another? the future.
he goes over to a draped easel in the corner, and removes the cloth, revealing a large
audobon-style drawing of a weasel.
i give you... the pine weasel - found only in our tri-county
area. targeted by the environmental defense league and
the wilderness society. nearly extinct.
they're incredible roasted. a ginger and garlic
marinade, a glass of sauvignon blanc -
according to an environmental impact report i
commissioned, what few pine weasels remain...
... will be all but wiped out by the packard plans for
ghostwood development.
#2.016 revised 12-19-90, blue
you wanna "save the pine weasel"?
not just the pine weasel. life as we know it. i want
twin peaks to remain unspoiled in an era of vast
environmental carnage.
but development is progress: people, money.
not always. ben if i could interrupt -
please, jack.
what ben's talking about is quality of life, something we
don't consider much in the business world. it's my
experience that a corporation like horne industries is not
just a vehicle for making money, but for expressing values
too.
audrey looks at wheeler, irked by the interruption, interested too.
so we block catherine's development until the wheel turns
and we get another shot. brilliant ben, brilliant.
i intend to fight the ghostwood development on every
ground with every available weapon. this little weasel is
about to become a household word.
then what?
ben leans back, taking them all in.
i'm considering a run for the senate.
#2.016
shelly clears tables. one man sits at the counter finishing up. we move in to see
that it's windom earle, dressed like a truck driver: baseball hat, flannel shirt,
jacket, and dirty jeans. he leaves some money on the counter - and an envelope.
talking on the phone. in the background, we see windom earle leave.
...annie, it's no problem, really. i've got plenty of room.
you get on the next bus and i'll be waiting.
okay, honey, don't cry. things will be fine. i'll see you
soon. i love you too. bye.
she hangs up. shelly brings a load of dirty dishes over.
so is she coming?
tomorrow.
god, what do you have to do to get out of a convent?
leave. it's not a prison.
sure sounds like it to me.
no tv. no boyfriends.
when she was little i always thought annie was from
another time and place. the convent was right for her, in a
way. it's kind of hard to imagine her out in the world.
here's something for you.
who from?
#2.016
i don't know. whoever was sitting here.
shelly opens it, removes a piece of paper, both sides ripped - clearly a companion piece to the
one audrey received.
wow, get a load of this
so much
spoken
perhaps it is to be
a hundred times
and will walk gaily over your
this makes no sense.
save the one you love. a gathering of angels tonight at the
roadhouse, nine-thirty.
sounds romantic. or dangerous.
sounds crazy. what could this be?
the door flies open and big ed strides in - a man on a mission. norma's face lights up. ed
doesn't speak, he takes norma's hand and leads her out from behind the counter and into his
arms. shelly watches, wide-eyed.
norma, i've loved you every day for the past twenty years
and i've dreamed of you every night. it's time for us to be
together. will you marry me?
norma's completely overcome.
ed...
#2.016
it 's finally our turn, baby. we deserve to be happy.
ed kisses her, full of love and passion.
she smiles brightly. dreams do come true.
#2.016 20.
leo sits on a tree stump, whittling a long, thin piece of wood, the shock collar around
leo's neck. windom earle walks over, pats him on the back, like a dog.
good job, fella.
leo doesn't react, just keeps whittling.
just a few more, then we'll eat.
earle picks up one of the shafts, sings a snatch of an irish drinking song, then ...
"fly to my breast, pierce me in colors autumnal/speak to
me only of love."
leo looks at him uncomprehendingly. earle looks back.
leo, you have an incomplete education.
for instance, survival in the wilderness a relevant issue
in your life, my friend. this comes under the heading of
practical instruction. i hope you've been paying attention.
from his pocket, he takes a deadly arrowhead, knifepoint gleaming, and affixes it to
the shaft: an arrow. leo gets the idea, smiles.
nature is cruel. this is also ... a lesson.
the jail. hank's in his cell, laying down on the bed. the door opens, norma enters.
hi, honey.
norma doesn't respond, looking at her husband through the bars.
how do you feel?
great, now that you're here.
#2.016
he reaches through the bars to hold her hand. norma doesn't move.
hank, i came here to ask for a divorce.
first let me say i don't blame you. you gave me a second
chance. i blew it. i don't know why i'm so self-
destructive, but i can see now that's got to be my priority
in getting well. i've got a lot of work to do. in fact, i
decided i'm going to try to go into therapy - i don't
want to be like this anymore.
hank closes his eyes, as though fighting back tears.
hank, that's... interesting. but i have to go on with my
life.
i know. i know you do. and i want you be be happy.
thank you.
i want to ask you one last favor. i want you to help me get
out of here. if they send me back to prison i'll die. just
tell the sheriff i was at the restaurant the night leo was
shot. i was on my way there, but i can't prove it. you can.
no more lies, hank.
it's not telling a lie. it's saving my life.
no.
norma, you're killing me -
#2.016 22.
don't blame me for this. don't you dare.
pause. anther track.
is it big ed, norma? is that what you're running to?
then here's the deal: give me my alibi, i'll give you your
divorce.
i didn't come here to negotiate. i came to say goodbye.
she starts out.
fine, go ahead -
you're his whore norma!
i'd rather be his whore, than your wife.
she exits.
norma!!!
pete, cooper, and truman are seated at the table - a chess board lies in the middle.
there's four or five ways to do this. they each have their
virtues. i recall casablanca and lasker in st. petersburg,
1914 -
pete, we've only got five minutes.
lucy, get the examiner on the phone. tell them not to
close out the personals, we need a little more time.
all eyes are on pete - still staring at the board. finally, he moves a pawn.
#2.016 23.
okay, that's it. guaranteed to cause some sleepless nights.
as long as he can't take a piece off the board -
he can't, at least not for five or six more moves.
maybe it'll just frustrate him, maybe he'll kill anyway.
i don't think so earle has a sense of honor about these
things, however perverse.
i never heard of a man who murdered by the rules.
albert sticks his head in the door - motioning for cooper.
excuse me.
truman watches cooper leave - with mounting dread. his call goes through.
sandy, this is sheriff truman, we've got our item ready -
15a. int. sheriff's station hallway - day
albert leads cooper all the way down to the other end of the hall - then faces him.
i've got a match on the gun that whacked you to powder
residue on josie packard's gloves. seattle police have also
come up with an eyewitness who positively id'd josie
leaving the car where they found the stiff. now if you're
not gonna bust the bitch, i'll consider it a personal
privilege -
albert, i'll handle it.
#2.016 24.
cooper looks down the hall, and harry is standing there watching them. cooper, full of pain
and compassion, locks eyes with his friend. in that instant harry knows the truth. he bolts out
the front door.
looks like you just did.
josie's room. she sits at the vanity, in her slip, staring into the mirror - a doomed
woman. she picks up a lipstick, and slowly applies it on her mouth. there's a knock on
her door.
come in.
andrew enters, carrying, two glasses of champagne.
i assume you still have a taste for bubbly. we killed
enough bottles in our time.
josie takes it, confused by his kindness. he raises his glass.
to beginnings ... and endings. and the wisdom to know
the difference.
andrew, i'm ... sorry.
at first i hated you for it. perfectly normal response. as
my anger subsided i recalled that eckhardt has a way of
pursuading people to do ... anything. i assume it was his idea.
he said that you never loved me, that you just married
me to get back at him.
that's not true. i did love you very much. but of course,
i'm afraid the same could never be said for you.
#2.016 25.
please, josie, there's no need for lies between us.
josie hangs her head, ashamed.
you had a job to do and you did it. that was your choice.
now you're paying the price. every action has it's
consequences, my dear.
josie looks at him, questioning.
the police are closing in. if you don't take action, you'll
be sleeping in a jail cell tonight.
what can i do?... help me.
you must see eckhardt. perhaps you were meant to be
together all along. i truly believe that he loves you. he
doesn't know i'm alive. and he can get you out of the
country. go to him, josie. now.
josie nods her head, downs the rest of her champagne, literally shaking with fright. she starts
to speak again.
don't say anything. let me just remember you this way.
we won't speak again.
he rises, looks at josie one last time - so beautiful, so pathetic. then he leaves.
nature at it's best. donna sits on a quilt next to a basket of wine, cheese, and crackers. we
hear a motorcycle - it's james. he dismounts, sits beside her. both a little awkward.
it's beautiful.
i wanted to go somewhere we'd never been before. how'd
it go with the police?
they asked a million questions i didn't know the answer
to. but the ones i did must've been enough. evelyn's gonna
#2.016 26.
stand trial. i'll be a witness.
you're still wearing the ring.
donna looks at the ring james gave her.
i know about you and evelyn.
i don't blame you for hating me...
listen to me. i know what you were feeling, because i was
feeling it too. and i believe evelyn took advantage of
that.
it was wrong. i should have known it was.
james. you can feel bad about what happened for you. but
i don't want you to feel bad for me.
i love you.
they come together in a healing embrace, remain in each other's arms throughout. a long beat,
then, quiet and sad:
i remember when i thought love was simple. but look at
us. nothing we do seems to matter. maybe love isn't
enough.
if we could just start over...
come home with me.
i can't. not right now.
donna pauses. she's knows what's best for james. no matter how much it hurts. that's why
she brought him here.
#2.016 27.
then go. ride as far away as you can.
but what about you?
you can't worry about me any more. i've been a part of all
the horrible things that happened. from now on i want to
be part of something good. go, james. take all the time
you need.
donna pauses, determined not to cry. she reaches in her pocket, and pulls out an envelope.
it's not much, but what's babysitting money for, if you
can't buy your best friend a present.
i'll miss you like crazy, but you'll come back and tell me
a bunch of great stories. and none of them will be about
laura, or maddy, or evelyn. i'll be here. and we can
start over again.
come with me.
no.
i'll come back for you. i promise i'll -
donna silences him with a kiss, sweet and tender. their embrace deepens. they tumble
down and make love.
#2.016
catherine is curled up in front of the fire, sipping a cup of tea, reading a book. (dostoyevsky's
crime and punishment). pete sits in his chair, meticulously tying flies. a knock on
the door. catherine gives pete a look: she's not about to get up.
coming.
he shuffles over to the door, and opens it on a very distraught sheriff truman.
pete, i need to see josie.
c'mon in. i think she went out.
yes, sheriff, it's a little odd. she took my car, without
saying a word.
she told me the great northern.
did she? well, she took a lot of things with her. i don't
know where she was going, but i'd say she was planning to
stay awile.
what else did she say, pete?
said she was seeing an old friend.
oh. him.
i suppose it's been hard on all of us. learning the truth
about josie.
truman storms over to the phone and quickly dials.
#2.016 revised 12-19-90, blue
poor man.
agent cooper's room, please.
it's me. i'm coming over.
eckhardt enters the elevator. pushes a button. the man whose back is to him turns. it's packard.
thomas. we meet again.
eckhardt is shocked. the doors close. andrew pushes a button to stop the car between floors.
eckhardt reaches for a gun.
that won't be necessary. as unlikely as it may sound, i'm
here as a friend. honestly, thomas, put the gun away. i'm
unarmed. look if you like.
(raises his arms to be searched, eckhardt still
holds the gun)
very well, then. if it makes you more comfortable.
this is somewhat awkward.
yes, of course. it's not every day you're obliged to
converse with the dead. look closer, thomas. i am alive.
how?
guess. it's really very simple.
josie.
she warned me off herself. couldn't bear to see her
beloved husband perish. or, more realistically, i suppose,
she felt there was some advantage to be gained. whatever
the case, when the true love went up there was no one on
board. damn shame, if you ask me. i placed more value
#2.016 revised 12-19-90, blue
in that boat than in most people i know. josie included.
she betrayed me.
we are all familiar with betrayal.
i never would have tried to kill you over business.
over josie then?
you took her from me.
but you got her back, didn't you? at least, you thought
you did. almost as good. almost the same thing.
she's mine. she belongs to me.
oh, thomas. love will break your heart. happily, i long
ago lost interest. but josie, she gives her heart with
alarming regularity. the local sheriff, of all people.
i took care of that.
i don't doubt it. sometimes i wonder if our josie does
these twisted things deliberately. don't you?
i do regret that our friendship had to end over someone
so... inconstant. josie's unpredictable nature is part of her
charm, to be sure. especially to men like us, so set in our
ways. but as i grow older, i find myself placing more
value in simple, unadorned, trust.
is that why you came back, andrew? to lecture me about
trust?
no. as someone who was once your friend, i return with a
#2.016 31.
ah, here we are. this must be your floor. i'll be going
back down to the garage. my resurrection remains a well-
kept secret.
see you soon...?
goodbye, thomas.
andrew waves cheerfully as the doors close. eckhardt pauses to wonder, then steps away.
ben, audrey, and wheeler are finishing their dinner.
... i know i have a lot to learn. and you jack, will be my
teacher. think of me as an open book, upon whose virgin
pages you shall scribe.
audrey nearly chokes on her dessert. ben pats her on the back.
what exactly do you do, mr. wheeler?
call me jack. i buy bankrupt, failing businesses,
streamline them, bring them up to speed, and then,
usually, sell them.
and at a substantial profit. but not, i should add, before
making significant environmental concessions. when
jack's finished, the waste is re-routed, the air cleaner, the
people happier.
you make me sound like santa claus. i'm a businessman,
that's all.
the maitre d' whispers in ben's car. he nods and stands.
#2.016 32.
excuse me, the cook just tried to stab jerry. you kids
carry on.
audrey, pay attention.
he hurries off. audrey turns to wheeler, fixes him with a level stare. she's determined to
remain unimpressed. and she won't call him 'jack.'
so which is it, mr. wheeler? are we bankrupt or just
failing?
i'm here to do an old friend a favor.
my father's friends are rarer than the pine weasel.
ben was once a very good friend to me.
and so you came back to bring us all up to speed. you are
santa claus, mister wheeler. i better hang my stocking.
you don't like me much, do you audrey?
i don't have an opinion either way.
but if you did?
if i did, i'd say that the hornes have managed to take care
of themselves just fine for more years than you can count.
and, desperate though we may seem, will probably
continue to do so in the foreseeable future.
audrey's matching his direct tone, adding a little bit of her father's flamboyance. she waits
for wheeler to respond, react. a beat. and he begins to laugh.
what's so funny?
#2.016 33.
i was just remembering. heidi, it's no big deal...
heidi again. i was ten, i don't know what that has to do
with anything...
somehow, ben convinced pete martell to play the goat.
he had these horns on, and you know pete, he'd bleat and
baah to wake the dead, loud enough that we couldn't hear
poor heidi's lines. so you kicked him. hard. right
where he lives, as i recall...
i didn't mean to hurt him...
pete started yowling even louder, for real this time, and
precious, innocent little heidi turned to the audience, pig-
tails and deep dark eyes...and smiled. ten years old and
you made it very clear: don't tread on me.
sorry. it's just that a minute ago i was starting to feel
like one of heidi's goats. sparked a memory.
where have you been all this time? i mean, when you
weren't rescuing widows and orphans and making our
world a better place to live in.
the far corners of the earth. it's glorious out there,
audrey. but all in all, it's nice be back home.
wheeler says it simply, without affect. audrey's never met a man like him before. with a
single exception ... agent cooper. and that goes straight to the heart of her.
#2.016 34.
i'm only eighteen.
excuse me?
nothing. i, uhm... look at the time. tell my father,
okay? i've got an appointment. see you... jack
flustered, not sure exactly what she's feeling, audrey makes a sudden exit. wheeler sits back,
as fascinated now as he was back then ... and watches her go.
shelly sits at the bar, sipping a beer. alone, not sure what she's waiting for. donna walks out
of the ladies room and sees shelly. donna goes over.
hi shelly.
hi, how are you doing?
how are you doing?
okay. you know, life.
yeah.
no thanks.
waiting for james?
no, i got this weird note. asked me to meet somebody
here.
she lays her torn piece of paper on the bar. shelly looks at it.
that's weird all right.
she takes out her own piece of paper, and lays it down next to donna's. two pieces of the same
puzzle. then a third piece of paper is laid down next to the other two - the puzzle is
complete.
#2.016 35.
they look up - it's audrey.
looks like we have all something to talk about.
they fit together.
i have dreamed so much of you
walked so much, spoken, lain with your phantom...
that all i have to do now perhaps is to be a phantom
among phantoms and a ghost hundred times...
more than the ghost who walks gaily over the sun-dial of
your life.
camera move to reveal windom earle, in disguise, sitting in another part of the
roadhouse watching them.
sheriff truman strides through the lobby over to the house phone. he picks it up.
agent cooper, please.
cooper's loading his pistol. the phone rings, he uncoils, answering it.
cooper ... yes, catherine. no, i was just on my way out
there - she's here now? thomas eckhardt, all right ...
truman still on the phone.
operator's voice
i'm sorry, that line is still busy.
truman hangs up and heads for the elevators.
cooper walks down a hall and around a corner. we hear shouting. cooper moves
more quickly.
#2.016 36.
man's voice
say it, say you don't love him!!
cooper now stands outside the door.
woman's voice
no! not as long as i live...
man's voice
then you won't.
cooper kicks the door open - just as a shot is fired.
cooper bursts in on josie lying on the bed with eckhardt, both faces frozen, eyes wide open.
it's not clear who's done what to whom. eckhardt rises from the bed, starts towards cooper, a
knife in his hand. then cooper sees the blood seeping from the wand in his chest. eckhardt
stops. a pause.
josie pulls her arm out from under the covers - pointing the smoking gun at cooper.
eckhardt collapses.
josie holds the gun on cooper. she's wearing traditional chinese peasant clothes that
are half open, half off. no make-up, looking more like the girl she used to be.
he tried ... he tried to kill me.
is that what you'll say about me? josie, i'm not armed.
behind cooper, truman steps through the open door - unseen, but listening.
what about jonathan? was he trying to kill you too?
he was taking me back
truman draws his gun.
and me. why did you shoot me, josie?
you asked too many questions. i knew this day was
#2.016 revised 1-3-90, yellow
coming. i won't go to jail. i can't.
truman steps out into the room, points his gun at josie.
put it down, josie.
josie can't bear to look at truman. tears roll down her face, but the gun holds steady.
put it down.
harry, forgive me. i had no right to hurt you ...
she cocks the gun. still pointed at cooper.
i'm begging you. don't make me do this.
she looks at him one more time. whispers goodbye. she turns the gun on herself. her hand
starts shaking. she exhales sharply, twice, her body seizes up and she collapses on the floor.
truman rushes to her.
josie? josie!
she's dead.
cooper looks at them and senses something more:
cooper's pov
josie and truman disappear. a bright light appears in the room. in a hole in that light
cooper sees the little man from his dream, dancing by, then replaced by the face of bob,
laughing demonically. that image fades... truman reappears, kneeling down, holding the
body of josie. cooper continues to watch-them, trying to make sense of what he's seen.
camera drifts over to a chest of drawers, settling on a circular drawer pull. the grain of
the wood seems to waver momentarily and shift and in it we see the tortured, screaming
features of josie.