TWIN PEAKS #24
by
Barry Pullman
Scanned by runningdog.
Original formatting duplicated as closely as possible. For
clarification all duplicate pages removed. Special note: this is a
faithful duplication that includes the original spelling, formatting and
series related errors.
First Draft: December 11, 1990
Second Draft: December 19, 1990
Revise/General Distribution: January 7, 1991
Revised: January 7, 1991 - BLUE
Revised: January 8, 1991 - PINK
Revised: January 10, 1991 - GREEN
Revised: January 11, 1991 - YELLOW
Lynch/Frost Productions, Inc.
7700 Balboa Boulevard
Van Nuys, CA 91406
(818) 909-7900
Revised 1-10-91, Green
#2.017
EXT. BOOKHOUSE - DAY
Establish.
INT. BOOKHOUSE
OPEN ON TRUMAN sitting at a table in the bookshelved alcove. Playing from the bar
area, we HEAR Muddy Waters, I Just Want to Make Love to You. Truman is sleepless and
unshaven; his thoughts also appear to be growing a little wild. Before him is a half-empty
bottle of Canadian whiskey and an overturned, unused shot glass, which Truman lazily twirls.
HAWK enters carrying a box which he places in front the sheriff. He opens the box: it's a
packed Diner breakfast. Truman looks up at Hawk indifferently.
One of Norma's breakfasts. Made special.
Maybe later.
Hawk says nothing, but his look lingers for a moment.
How's things at the station?
Earle's chess game is the big concern. Man has a poor sense
of recreation.
A brief beat. As these are his vacation days, the same could obviously be said of Truman.
We're holding up. For now.
Cooper can handle it.
It's a pretty simple town. Used to be, anyway. Maybe
the world's just caught up to it.
And perhaps also to Truman. Hawk gives the sheriff a Bookhouse salute, and goes, his receding
bootsteps slowed by concern.
#2.017
INT. DOUBLE R DINER - DAY
START ON an attractive YOUNG WOMAN as she enters the Double R carrying a small
suitcase. She looks about, tentative, then spots NORMA stepping into view.
Norma!
Annie ...
It's Norma's sister, ANNIE BLACKBURNE. Norma comes around the counter to offer a
welcoming embrace. Annie receives it with relief, some hesitation. She's got a lot on her
mind. SHELLY comes out from the kitchen, carrying an order.
Shelly, this is my sister, Annie.
Welcome, Annie. Norma's told me all about you.
Shelly, with an order in hand, spins away. Annie looks at her sister.
All ... about me?
Shelly's like family.
With our family that's not exactly a character reference.
How did you and mom get along?
We can talk about her, or we can feel good about things.
I vote for plan B.
Me, too. I'm glad you're here.
Feels a little strange. The real world. Little things.
Like I'd almost forgotten how to use money. Closest
we'd get in the convent was bingo chips.
No charity, Norma. Promise.
Revised 1-11-91, YELLOW
#2.017 3.
I'll work you 'till you drop.
CAMERA DRIFTS OVER to Shelly, who's just lowered the special in front of her customer,
MAJOR BRIGGS, and has waited a moment for him to sample.
Compelling.
Reasonably satisfied this isn't a complaint, she tentatively smiles and moves away. The LOG
LADY enters, passing behind Briggs at the counter and slowing to sit next to him. She then
suddenly stops behind the Major, staring down into his neck.
LOG LADY'S POV - BRIGGS
On the back of his neck, just above the high military collar, is a strange small marking,
consisting of three joined inverted triangles.
The Log Lady stares at the marking for a long beat. Then, as if touching some ancient rune,
reaches out, places two fingers upon it. Major Briggs feels her touch, swivels to face her.
INT. SHERIFF'S STATION - TRUMAN'S OFFICE - DAY
DALE COOPER, in full deputy dress, sits at Truman's desk, looking over several piles of
paperwork. At a corner of the desk is a copy of the Twin Peaks Gazette, opened to the
Personals section. Hawk enters.
Harry's about to hit bottom.
Is he eating?
His vacation days'll be used up soon. Think he'll come
back to work?
Guess we'll find out. Give you a hand?
That's a question I should be asking you.
You're the senior lawman, Cooper. Let's let the rain fall
as it has been.
Besides. I hate paperwork.
#2.017
This is worse than the bureau, all the international
documentation. Eckhardt... Josie...
Have you seen Doc Hayward's autopsy on her? Says he
couldn't determine cause of death. And the body
weighed sixty-five pounds.
How is that possible?
I don't know. Maybe something to do with what I saw in
the room when she died.
Maybe we'd better just whistle on our way past the
graveyard.
Yeah.
Anything on Earle?
That trail's completely cold.
We'll have to wait for his response.
INT. GREAT NORTHERN DINING ROOM - DAY
Hectic preparations for tonight's fashion show benefit for Stop Ghostwood. Amidst the
workers still building the runway, AUDREY HORNE rehearses and directs the models.
RICHARD TREMAYNE, the peacockish host, is accomplishing nothing outside of a skillful
job of smoking. He sidles up to a couple idle MODELS, who stand in requisite boredom,
awaiting further instructions, or romantic rescue.
Ladies, may I say you'll both delightfully represent the
sanctity of nature.
Cigarette?
I like to keep my chest clear.
#2.017
The Great God Fitness.
Audrey comes up to Tremayne, irritated by his utter uselessness.
Have you spoken with Pinkle?
What's a Pinkle?
He's going to give a talk on the Pine Weasel.
The endangered animal.
Oh. Lovely. What is it? A raccoon or something?
A ferret.
There he is.
TIM PINKLE, of Tim and Tom's Taxidermy approaches, carrying a large stuffed Pine
Weasel under one arm. His plaid jacket looks almost like a taxidermy that didn't take.
You two should coordinate.
You are dreaming.
Audrey turns away and runs straight into JOHN JUSTICE WHEELER. She is momentarily,
uncharacteristically, schoolgirlishly flustered.
Hello, Audrey.
You look like you're trying to run lumber upstream.
How may I help you, Mr. Wheeler?
Well, I was thinking about our talk last night...
Revised 1-10-91, Green
#2.017 6.
Oh gosh, I'm sorry, I was rude, wasn't I? It's just that
when it comes to family, I...
My fault entirely.
Audrey and Wheeler drift closer, casting sentences at each other.
...get a little excitable, that's all.
Who am I to waltz in here out of nowhere...
We need help, anyone can see that...
... as if your father didn't have enough help already....
... and I can't think of anyone better qualified for the job
than you...
Suddenly, Wheeler stops, removes himself from the back and forth. Audrey takes note, looks
up at him. Wheeler smiles.
Hello.
What're we talking about anyway?
I was apologizing. You were apologizing. We're both
real sorry...
Do you ... want to go somewhere...?
... this is probably not a good time...
Oh, no, it's great.
#2.017
How about a picnic?
Well, we'll need outdoors stuff. A blanket, a basket...
Food.
I don't know how to cook.
I'll bet there's someone in the kitchen who does.
CAMERA PICKS UP Tremayne and Pinkle, passing by.
It's just so people can see what a Pine Weasel looks like.
I understand the concept perfectly, Mr. Twinkle.
Pinkle. The name is Pinkle.
But what I'm trying to make clear to you is that using a
stuffed animal to represent an endangered species at an
ecological protest constitutes the supreme incongruity.
Yeah, that's real clear, Dick...
INT. WINDOM EARLE'S CABIN - DAY
OPEN ON a work desk on which sit three stainless steel suitcases. One of them, a makeup
case, is open. Propped against its standing half is the photograph of a bearded, bespectacled
young man with white bushy eyebrows. SOUND of an irregular wheeze of breathing: PAN
ACROSS THE ROOM to where LEO JOHNSON awkwardly reaches down into a closet,
emerging with... Windom Earle's slippers. One in each hand. He shuffles into the living room,
up to the easy chair where Windom sits.
Slip...
Slippers.
#2.017 8.
Earle's tone makes Leo look up suddenly, anticipating a shock. But none is coming. SHOT
CLOSES ON Earle as we hear Leo moving away.
You know Leo, you really can't appreciate how tonic
country life is until you're actually right here living it.
A concurring GRUNT from OFF SCREEN. Leo approaches again, carrying Earle's pipe.
Pipe...
Splendid.
Even if you've been in the country before, when you
imagine what it would be like to go back... the image is
imperfect. The mental image is always imperfect. Am
I right?
Leo arrives again with the day's paper, flinching at Earle's look.
Tacit agreement is acceptable, Leo. Your silence speaks
volumes.
Or if not volumes at least the occasional, unpunctuated
paragraph.
Leo sits on a small crate purposely positioned at Earle's right hand. Leo's spot.
Let's see what move our poor Cooper's come up with this
time...
After finding the chess move, Earle's eyes stay on the page a beat. He then leans over to the
chess board on his other side and makes the communicated move. A long survey of the board.
Looks up with great displeasure. Leo gazes at him as we might an overcast sky.
This isn't a move. This is a trick.
He's playing a stalemate game.
Cooper doesn't know the meaning of stalemate...
He's getting help.
Earle reaches for his Samurai flute. Leo knows it isn't to play: this is not a musical moment.
CLOSE ON the flute, held high and swaying in the air.
#2.017
I have no tolerance for people who don't play by the rules.
People who shirk the standards.
The flute comes crashing down on Leo's head. He wimpers in discomfort.
Many people are going to regret this.
He lifts the flute again. Leo cowers. But Earle merely raises it to his mouth. And plays.
CLOSE ON a glistening emerald ring on Earle's left hand. THEN PULL BACK, framing
this little domestic tableau.
#2.017
INT. BOOKHOUSE - DAY
OPEN ON Truman, looking pretty much as before. His breakfast hasn't been touched. His
whiskey has. He continues to fiddle with the empty shot glass. Cooper enters, taking in the
whole scene with a glance; he sits down across from Truman.
Coop.
Harry.
We got Josie's dossier in from INTERPOL.
More good news.
In addition to her killing Eckhardt, trying to kill me and
killing Jonathan in Seattle...
Closed cases.
She's also been a wanted for a variety of felonies in Hong
Kong.
I don't need to hear this.
She also had two prostitution arrests...
Truman turns away in despair.
Harry, eventually it'll help for you to know she was a
hardened criminal. A killer.
Get out.
I know it's not easy now -
#2.017
Go.
Cooper stands, gives his friend a long look and walks slowly out of the Bookhouse.
INT. BLUE PINE LODGE
CATHERINE sits at her desk, pores over blueprints and documents. Plans for the new and
improved Ghostwood development. She hears a faint rustling sound, looks up ... and sees
JONES standing across the room.
The door was open.
A country habit. We're all so trusting.
My name is Jones, I was exec executive assistant to the late Mr.
Eckhardt.
Catherine gestures to a chair, carefully watches her guest take a seat. Jones has a satchel purse,
which Catherine is also watching.
Thank you. I've come to expedite the transport of his
body back to Hong Kong.
(Catherine says nothing: what does this woman
want?)
Tragic, what happened. You know, he really did love
Josie.
Didn't we all.
They're going to be buried side by side...
So they can keep an eye on each other.
I guess you have your reasons to be bitter.
#2.017
Call me a healthy skeptic.
Catherine raises her hand above the desk, reveals the gun she's been holding since she discovered
Jones in her living room.
Now, what did you really come here to see me about?
I came here to give you a gift.
May I?
I don't think so.
Empty it.
Jones complies, emptying her large purse onto the couch beside her. Out fall no guns or
weapons of any kind, just women 's minutiae, save one very mysterious looking black box.
Jones picks it up and hands it to Catherine.
From Thomas.
Catherine gazes at it, puzzled. Jones scoops her belongings back into the purse and rises to her
feet, Catherine lowers the gun barrel.
I have a few things to tidy up, then I'll be leaving tonight.
Good luck, Mrs. Martell.
We HEAR her going as the SHOT CLOSES on the black gift box.
INT. HAYWARD HOUSE
Donna sits in the front room over a cup of coffee and a copy of the Gazette. The DOORBELL
sounds. At the door is a vaguely familiar man with a close light beard, spectacles and thick,
snowy eyebrows. We RECOGNIZE his face from the photograph in Earle's cabin.
Excuse me. I'm looking for Bill or Eileen Hayward.
They're not in. Can I help you?
#2.017 13.
I'm Dr. Gerald Craig, a friend of Will's from medical
school. I've got a convention over in Spokane, and I
thought I'd swing by and surprise them. Now, which
daughter are you?
I'm Donna.
Would you like to come in, Dr. Craig?
I'd appreciate that.
They enter the living room, toward the perpendicularity of couch and chair.
Would you like some coffee?
Thank you, no.
Is this your local paper?
Yes. It's a pretty small town.
Craig is stealing a glance at her, and various details of the room.
Don't knock small towns, till you've lived in a city
Donna. Looks to me like Will's found himself a little
piece of heaven here.
Now, don't you have two sisters?
Yes. They're younger.
Are they both as beautiful as you?
Well I don't really -
Funny. Your dad and I used to sit around, try to figure
how our lives would turn out. Think he came closer to the
mark than I have.
#2.017 14.
You're in high school?
Unfortunately.
I felt exactly the same way. High school's difficult; you
have no idea what you want to do with your life, so it
seems as if almost none of it applies to your life.
That's right.
Trust me, it'll make sense later. For now, just enjoy it.
In all its absurdity.
Donna is visibly refreshed to hear so something from an adult that sounds so life-accurate.
I have a small gift for your dad. Can I trust you not to
open it?
Sure.
Craig pulls a small, wrapped box from his pocket.
Speaking of school. Will and I graduated thirty years
ago, this month. This is a small remembrance for him.
He hands it to her. With the box is a piece of paper.
I should be on my way. That's the number where I'm
staying.
Hope to see you later, Donna.
Me, too.
She looks at this little package with fascination. As he ambles off, we HEAR Craig begin to
whistle: we RECOGNIZE this as the piece Earle was playing on his Samurai flute.
#2.017
INT. SHERIFF'S STATION - DAY
Encamped in one growing corner of the room is PETE MARTELL, surrounded by chess
boards, chess books, coffee, lined tablets on which he's made notations specific enough to
embarrass some field generals of actual wars. Cooper enters.
Pete, how are we doing?
Martell looks up. Another face in need of sleep.
Never had to look at a chess board like it's a bunch of
actual human beings. Makes for some nasty dreams.
I've been through every stalemate in recorded history, and
I've jerryrigged a few country standoffs they've written no
books about. But it's no use: there isn't a stalemate game
on earth where you don't lose at least a few footsoldiers.
The classic Herbstman leaves you with six pieces. Now I
can improve on that, but even if I get there in half the
time and keep twelve, that means six people will die.
Do your best, Pete. Windom Earle's genius carries with it
the vice of impatientence. He doesn't want to kill eight
pawns. He wants royalty. Protect those, particularly the
queen, and we can frustrate him.
You can't do that.
My students.
In another corner of the room, LUCY and ANDY sit across a chess board, clearly at
loggerheads.
Mr. Martell, Andy moved his knight but he didn't do the
little hook thing.
You don't have to do the little hook thing. That's
optional.
Andy ... the knight has to do the little hook thing.
#2.017
Every time?
It's a privilege. No one else gets to make that move.
Okay, Mr. Martell...
Lucy looks on at her opponent with indignant superiority.
I guess some people don't know quite as much as they
think they do...
Check.
Brennan stares at the board. Cooper turns to see he has visitors.
BRIGG'S VOICE
We thought it best we come see you.
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM
ANGLE ON the blackboard, on which are drawn three inverted triangles. PULL BACK to
Cooper, Briggs and the Log Lady.
As you know, that pattern on the back of my neck
appeared during ... my experience. With of course no
idea as to how it got there.
And you noticed it today.
My log noticed. I remember.
Remember?
Look at the back of my leg.
INSERT - HER LEG
Behind the knee is the figure of a square with an 'x' inside, creating four triangles.
#2.017
Where Cooper has drawn this image on the board, beside the inverted triangles of Briggs:
I was seven years old. I went walking up in the woods
and when I got back, I was told I'd disappeared for a
day. All I could recall was a flash of light ... and that
mark was on my leg.
We all three recall the light.
And also... the sound of an owl...
I remember that.
The only other other time I saw that sight and heard that
sound... was just before my husband died.
Cooper is staring at the board. He steps up to the square of four triangles and draws Briggs's
three smaller inverted triangles inside them creating another shape which immediately
excites Briggs and the Log Lady.
I've seen that before.
Yes...
Cooper turns to them excitedly.
What is it?
Something about this figure is visibly upsetting to them both. Briggs looks at Cooper and just
shakes his head. The Log Lady hunkers down with her log, for security and insight, and finally
looks up, dismayed.
I don't know...
CLOSE ON the blackboard's symbol.
Revised 1-10-91, Green
#2.017 18.
EXT. WOODS - DAY
OPEN ON a wooded vista, some hidden spot in the verdent forest. We HEAR a man's voice,
singing clear as a bell, 0 Bury Me Not On The Lone Prairie. CAMERA MOVES between the
pines to REVEAL Audrey and John Wheeler seated upon a blanket, a picnic lunch between
them, Wheeler singing his cowboy song. Audrey watches, jawdropped, she couldn't be more
surprised ... or taken with this handsome stranger. Wheeler finishes, peers at her. For once in her
life Audrey Horne is speechless. Finally:
Wow.
Wheeler says nothing, waits for her. Audrey, suddenly vulnerable, without the usual banter to
protect her, finally continues:
Nobody's ever sung a song to me before.
You must've been serenaded a time or two.
I don't inspire a lot of singing. Most boys are afraid.
Wolf whistles, maybe.
They don't know you then. Not really.
He's right. Audrey's been waiting a long time for someone to discover her secrets. She's
delighted, though not sure what to say. Wheeler interprets her silence as rebuke.
Sorry for being forward. It's not I like I know you that
well. In fact I don't know you at all.
Charm is a rocky road...
Another cowboy song, I know, a shot...?
I'm completely tone deaf.
Now it's his turn to be discomfited. A beat. Both realizing that the other fills them with a
sort of uncertain warmth, the awkwardness that accompanies sudden infatuation, or love.
Wheeler reaches for a bottle of beer, changes the subject.
Flying out here, I took a big northern swing. It's
beautiful. The air and light up toward the pole is like
Revised 1-10-91, Green
#2.017 19.
nothing you've ever seen. You sort of float while the earth
turns underneath. And the northern light gets trapped on
the horizon, in this bright blue band. Frozen light.
Frozen color.
Wheeler looks at her. Audrey pauses, preoccupied; then returns to the heart of the matter.
I don't think anyone really knows me.
That sounds like a warning.
I know.
Audrey. If there's some other guy, I'll...
There used to be, but...
A long beat. Audrey thinking about Cooper, first love, then, at last...
No. There's not. There's nobody.
So what'll we do now?
Know any more cowboy tricks?
If you've got a lariat in that picnic basket, I could lasso
passing cattle.
The closest cow is miles from here.
Well. Stray dogs, raccoons, a bluebird ... anything you
want...
HOLD ON Jack and Audrey for a beat. Falling in love. FADE OUT.
#2.017 20.
INT. HAYWARD'S LIVING ROOM. - DAY
DOC and EILEEN HAYWARD enter, Doc pushing her in the wheelchair. Donna enters from
a back room.
You two had a visitor.
Who's that?
Somebody you went to medical school with. Gerald
Craig?
Hayward reacts with visible surprise. Eileen pales.
Gerald Craig? That's impossible, Donna.
He's on his way to convention in Spokane. He knew all
about me and...
He left a phone number. And this.
Donna hands her father the wrapped package , Craig's phone number. Hayward, still silent,
stunned, hands the number to Eileen, begins to open the package
Gerry Craig was my roommate, he ... he drowned during a
rafting trip on the Snake River. I was there, Donna, I
tried to save him, but...
Then who was ...?
Eileen turns to both from the phone, she's just dialed the number Donna gave them.
It's a cemetary.
Doc takes the lid off the gift box.
INSERT - THE OPENED BOX
contains a beautiful black hand-carved chess piece. A knight. The piece of paper below it
Revised 1-11-91, YELLOW
#2.017 21.
reads "Kn to KB3".
Knight to King's Bishop 3.
What is it, dad?
That man, he's ... he's very dangerous. Don't let him in
here again, do you understand?
Sure -
I've got to take this over to Cooper.
He gathers up the box, chess piece and paper, then exits.
Donna give me your father's yearbook. It's upstairs, in the
study ...
Donna nods assent. WE FOLLOW her out of the room and up the stairs. From far away, WE
HEAR the DOORBELL.
I'll get it
Fearing this might again be the impostor, Donna starts down the stairs, but only gets a couple
beats down...
DONNA'S POV
looking down over the stairway, into the front alcove. Eileen leans forward in her wheelchair
to unlock the door. A MAN immediately steps inside. It is Ben Horne. He drops to one
knee and speaks to Eileen in urgent, hushed tones. We cannot HEAR what is being said.
INT. HURLEY LIVING ROOM DAY
Ed and NADINE sit body-width apart on the couch. DR. LAWRENCE JACOBY sits in a
facing chair.
#2.017
Nadine, what I'm really here to say to you is...
(a look to Jacoby, who gazes back with cool
encouragement)
... seeing as how you're with Mike now...
It's so cute the way you get embarrassed.
Ed gathers himself. This is not easy. Despite the absurdity of it, this is still, after all, his
wife; and someone he's been with since high school.
And since I've found someone else ... Nadine, I'm not sure
you're going to understand this.
Course I understand, Eddie. This isn't just a little spat.
Do you know what Ed is suggesting?
It's not too obvious. We're not like talking relativity
here. We're breaking up. Major, final breakup.
Ed and Jacoby trade looks.
Well, yes, technically it is a breakup, Nadine...
But it's a little more than that, too, honey.
Ed, you're so serious. These are the dating years. You're
acting like it's some really big deal.
Doc ...
There aren't any secret tricks or magic words. It's like
the dissolving of scar tissue around a wound: she'll start
to see reality again when her mind begins to feel safe.
When will that be?
Revised 1-8-91, PINK
#2.017 23.
Can't say. That tissue's packed in there pretty hard.
Okay, well one thing I don't want to see, Ed, are any
incidents with Mike. No jealous rages.
Well... maybe just a little one.
I give up.
Nadine. You and Ed are about to get a divorce.
Nadine stares at Jacoby. Her expression goes from incomprehension to discomfort to fear.
Suddenly she closes her good right eye. Opens it.
I think I've gone blind in my left eye.
It's the eye with the patch. Ed and Jacoby again trade looks, they are both bankrupt of
responses.
INT. DINER
OPEN ON Norma looking at a FLYER for the Miss Twin Peaks contest. She then carries it
over to Shelly at the counter.
Shelly, have you seen this?
"Miss Twin Peaks."
Me? Are you kidding?
There's a cash prize, a college scholarship ... I'll bet you
could walk away with it.
I don't know, Norma.
It's easy. Give a speech, answer a couple questions...
Miss Double R Diner, how would you bring about world
Revised 1-8-91, PINK
#2.017 24.
peace?
Well. I would ask all world's leaders to form a circle
and hold hands. Because you can't make a fist if you're
busy holding hands.
You're a shoe-in.
I've got an order up.
Shelly, to Norma's amusement, sashays to the kitchen window and vamps the order over to her
customer, a dark-haired man who looks like a highway gypsy, possibly a trucker.
What's with the little dance?
Oh, my boss was telling me I should enter this contest.
Miss Twin Peaks.
As she lowers his order, we see the EMERALD RING of Windom Earle.
You can kid about it, but you're very pretty. I think you
should enter.
Thank you. I never think of myself as pretty.
Shelly muses as she walks away. Over her shoulder we watch Cooper enter and take a counter
seat on the side opposite Earle, and further down. We CLOSE ON Cooper.
Are you ready to order?
He looks up at this unfamiliar voice and freezes on Annie Blackburne's face. There is instant,
mutual attraction. Something close to love at first sight. Cooper is hooked by Annie's soft
features - Botticcelli's Venus serving coffee. Annie feels it too, but is far less comfortable with
it.
A cup of deep, black joe.
Coming right up.
#2.017
You're a new face.
I'm Annie. Norma's sister.
Dale Cooper. Local law enforcement.
Must keep you pretty busy
It does. But in this town, there's always time to sit a
while and absorb ... observe.
Are you staying in town ... awhile?
I might be here quite a while
It's happened to me.
Looks like it's grown on you.
Things have a way of doing that here.
She starts to speak, then self-consciously backs off, sloe-eyed, half-smiling.
POV - THE MAN (WINDOM EARLE)
stares over at Cooper speaking to Annie. Studying him.
As Annie serves his coffee, her longsleeved shirt rides up far enough for Cooper to spot the
beginning of extensive wrist scars. He knows what they mean.
I made it a little strong.
You made it right.
Cooper gets an odd feeling, and suddenly looks across the counter: Earle is gone. Hawk
enters, making a straight line for Coop.
Revised 1-11-91, YELLOW
#2.017 26.
We've got a problem at the Bookhouse.
INT. BOOKHOUSE ENTRANCE - NIGHT
Dark, ominous. Standing beside the door is Andy.
Agent Cooper, Hawk, the Sheriff's gone off. He's broken
every piece of furniture that's not nailed down and shot
out the ceiling lights. I honestly don't know what to do.
It's okay, Andy.
He is clearly frightened. Cooper and Hawk follow a trail of broken furniture. Truman sits in
darkness, a bottle of Jack Daniels beside him, gun in hand.
Hello, Coop. How's business?
A little complicated at the moment.
Nice thing about the law. It doesn't breathe.
You can't kill it.
Harry, let's make this simple ... why don't you hand me
that gun.
Don't think I've handed my gun over to anybody my
entire life.
This might be the time.
You know something else I've never done? I've never
really left Twin Peaks. Ever. Never crossed the ocean. I
was the one who stayed. Then Josie came to town. And
my life...
My life was different. It was better. And now she's
gone...
Revised 1-11-91, YELLOW
#2.017 27.
Your life belongs to you, Harry. Josie didn't take it with
her.
When I walked in that room... and it looked like I might
have to shoot her...
I know she lied. I know she was evil.
I looked into her eyes... and watched the life drain out of
them... she was...
... so helpless... she needed me and there was nothing I
could do...
With that, Truman completely unravels, knocking over the bottle.
It didn't have to end like that... she didn't have to die...
The gun's aim swings into wider, more dangerous circles. Cooper steps in, pulls Truman into
a bearhug. Truman grabs onto him, finally allowing himself some comfort.
Easy.
The sheriff's arms extend despondently, the gun dangling from his hand. Hawk takes it.
There's so much I don't understand...
We're all like that, Harry.
CLOSE ON the spilled bottle of Jack Daniels, its copper puddle, seen between rungs of a
busted chair.
#2.017
INT. BOOKHOUSE - EARLY NIGHT
Cooper and Hawk carry Truman in, dropping him lightly down on the bed. They step over
toward the table lamp, as Truman lies in the darker background.
Somebody keep an eye on him tonight.
Never seen him that way. It was like hiking out to a
favorite spot and finding a hole where the lake used to be.
Josie had power.
"A man who doesn't love easily, loves too much."
A good man.
The best.
A beat. Truman rustles slightly.
Keep going....
Cooper and Hawk look over at the inert sheriff, then at each other.
INT. GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL - LOBBY
OPEN ON several couples in evening dress, heading for this evening's Ghostwood benefit.
CLOSE ON the registration desk, where concierge RICHARD LAZARE, is registering an
odd-looking YOUNG COUPLE, with one obviously empty suitcase.
That's a special honeymoon suite for .. Mr. and Mrs...
Hinkman?
EXPAND to reveal the 'Hinkmans': Nadine in a topcoat, summer hat and dark glasses.
Wearing his prom suit and an extremely nervous expression is MIKE NELSON.
That's... correct. We're from Bozeman originally, but my
#2.017 29.
wife thought it would be nice to see the countryside, and
you know, there's some pretty nice country here in Twin
Peaks...
Will you be with us long?
Not long enough..
Only until tomorrow. If that's okay. We're going deep
sea fishing.
Oh goody.
Okay, so we'll just go now. Me and Mrs. Hinkman.
Two of the Ghostwood benefit models pass by. Young girls, about high school age. One of
them slows at the sight of the registering couple.
Is that ... Mike?
Mike cringes. Nadine, through shades and an eye patch, stares knives at this girl, who is
thinking her buddy Mike must have lost a bet.
How are you, Susan?
Fine.
See you in school...
Lazare looks askance at this. Nadine simmers. Mike feels her iron grip tighten further.
The room, please.
For emphasis, Nadine impatiently SLAMS the desk bell. The clerk stares down at the
counter. The bell is flattened. Mike smiles weakly, lifting the empty suitcase.
I think we can handle the bags.
#2.017
INT. GREAT NORTHERN DINING ROOM
The Stop Ghostwood benefit has drawn a large, black tie crowd. BEN HORNE stands at the
microphone, located off on a wing of the newly constructed runway.
I'd first like to thank you all for this marvelous turnout.
It's gratifying to see so many people who are serious
about their environment.
The Stop Ghostwood campaign is a determined effort to
keep the rabid development interests from trying to turn
our beautiful northwest forests into a monstrous
amusement park, destroying animal preserves that have
been undisturbed for centuries, the little worlds which
serve as sanctums for several endangered species.
Before moving along, I'd just like to remind us all that
ecology is not a luxury science, and it's not about pleasant
appearances: it's about survival. About whether we're all
going to make it. Period.
But on the other hand, not to understate the value of visual
splendor, we come now to our fashion show. If you think
you recognize some of our models, it's because they're
concerned members of our community who have
graciously contributed their time tonight. So, ladies and
gentlemen, to kick things off, our host Richard
Tremayne.
Tremayne approaches the mike to scattered applause, grinning up past his eyebrows.
Thank you. Splendid gathering.
We DROP to a LONG SHOT of the runway, FAVORING the models as they emerge. The
first striding figure is Lucy Moran, cautiously eying Tremayne as she walks uncertainly out
along the ramp.
Our little Lucy wears a delightful mix of warm northern
comfort and southern insouciance. An elegant worsted
wool jacket over a sueded charmeuse T-shirt... fabulous,
isn't it?
Having nervously reached the end of the runway a little early, Lucy has to do a few too many
turns and starts to grow dizzy.
And a moonless-night-blue slim skirt of matching
worsted, for the look that always says, hey, world! I'm
here...
#2.017 31.
Lucy wobbles back toward the curtain. A pause. The next model, who looks more like he's
walking a plank than a runway, is Andy Brennan.
Mr. Brennan, a man for all seasons, is wearing a baby rib
wool turtleneck beneath a daring plaid all-wool
pendleton shirt.
Andy reaches the end of the ramp and freezes in stage fright, gawking out at the audience.
The look is completed by his black flaring cotton
trousers. For the man who wants to make a statement
while retaining the casual feel, whether he's out mastering
a task or riding the breeze of a chance meeting ...
That'll do it, Andy.
With stiff hulklike movements, Andy turns and goes.
Audrey hectically lines up the remaining models.
At this rate, were going to run late, so if you could all
sort of hurry Richard along with some quick movement
our there ...
Lucy walks past, still a little dazed, trailing Andy, the bright red turtleneck almost exploding
out of his shirt.
I'm hot in this thing.
You're hot? All this worsted? I'm dressed like a sheep.
And I also think Mr. Tremayne's getting a little warm
himself, over all these girls...
Our next model....
Audrey gives the lead girl a tap.
Go!
#2.017
Ben Horne sits over a drink, momentarily escaping the crowd. Catherine sits beside him.
Well, if it isn't John Muir, friend of the redwood.
Catherine, dear, how good of you to come?
Ben, darling, let me ask you; who are you kidding with all this?
Catherine, I am absolutely one hundred per cent sincere.
Ben, look who you're talking to. We're in the same line of
work: you've always been a little more obvious, but this...
at least I use some imagination.
Catherine, have you ever in your entire life had an
experience that truly changed you.
Spare me the Born Again sales pitch and level with me,
you can't really hope to stop development plans with
this little sideshow; what do you actually expect to gain
from all this?
A first scrubbing on one of the dirtiest consciences in the
entire Northwest.
It'll happen to you, Catherine. I know what you're
planning with Ghostwood. And granted, I used to see
life exactly the way you do. And no matter how many
deals I closed, or much money I made, inside I was a
black, miserable clod of dirt. Catherine, the one thing
that really affords you joy in life, the only authentic
thing is giving. Darling, don't wait until you're on your
death bed to find that out.
God help you. It sounds like you actually mean this.
I do mean it. For you, for me, and for the future.
#2.017
Catherine, why not take this opportunity to transcend a
lifetime of megalomania and egocentricity...
... and write us a fat check to help stop Ghostwood?
Standing beside Tremayne, much to Richard's disgust, is Tim Pinkle, attired in a cherry
sportcoat and pink polyester pants. Beside Pinkle is a cage, containing a meek-looking weasel.
And now, to introduce us to an endangered little critter
whose home is currently under attack by the proposed
Ghostwooddevelopment project ... Mr. Tim Pinkle.
Thanks, Dick. How's everybody doing tonight?
That's good.
In following the taller Tremayne, Pinkle loosens the stand in order to lower the mike, which
drops with a loud thud down to his ankle. In trying to extend it back up, he encounters more
resistance, gives it a good yank and shoots the mike up for someone six-eleven. Tremayne just
stares at him. Finally Pinkle lowers it to where it was originally.
Thank you. I'm here to introduce you all to a little guy
who doesn't understand the dark peril that awaits him.
An innocent in a world gone mad ...
Tremayne lightly elbows him, in a plea for brevity. Pinkie drops down and opens the cage.
Ladies and gentlemen, I give you ... the endangered Pine
Weasel.
Pinkle reaches down into the cage and pulls up the frightened animal, who is half-hypnotized
by the lights.
This species, technically of the weasel family, not only is
nonaggressive toward us humans and has beautiful fur ... he
is also by nature an excellent controller of rodents.
Pinkle holds the animal up in front of Tremayne.
#2.017
Unfortunately the little fella is a very curious animal,
making him unusually easy to trap. He's particularly
drawn to ...
The weasel leans over toward Tremayne, sniffing.
... bright tinkling objects.
Must be my tie clasp.
And to various smells, particularly, believe it or not, very
cheap cologne ...
Ignoring this, Tremayne affectionately drops his head down toward the weasel, playing to the
audience. The little creature reaches up toward Tremayne.
Think he wants to give you a little kiss, Dick ...
Hello there, little pilgrim.
The weasel lunges up sweetly and suddenly bites Tremayne on the nose. The host lets out a
yell, trying to pull himself away, but the animal won't let go. Tremayne finally wrenches
himself free, dancing up the runway in pain. The weasel screeches and bolts off the stage,
causing an immediate panic in the crowd. Women scurry around senselessly, screaming in fear.
No need to panic, folks ... he's completely harmless...
The place is in chaos. The weasel tears through the room, under a banquet table, spilling back
guests on both sides. Andy Brennan, still in costume, begins pursuit.
Nobody panic!!......
Up on the stage, Audrey is out trying to restore order.
Please everyone, calm down... stay in your seats ...
From behind, an alarmed model knocks Audrey off the runway. She tumbles headlong ... into
the arms of Jack Justice Wheeler. And stays there.
#2.017
You alright?
Fine ...
Lot of fuss over a loose weasel.
Maybe we should help.
Oh, I don't know. Little excitement might do this crowd
some good.
They share a laugh as confused patrons knife by them. Audrey settles a little deeper into his
arms.
Did you come for the fashion show?
No. I came for you.
And with that, as the world falls apart all around them, Audrey and Wheeler share their first
passionate kiss. HOLD ON this tableau for a beat.
INT. BOOKHOUSE
ANGLE ON a Bookhouse Boy, CAPPY, who sits guarding the door. Suddenly a GUN
BUTT cracks his head; he slides down onto the floor. The person who hit him, still faceless,
moves further inside.
is asleep in bed. The assailant walks up to him, holding the gun. A beat. The gun is then
placed on the nightstand.
The CAMERA PANS UP until we see it is Jones, still looking down at the sleeping Truman.
She now begins removing her clothes.
FADE TO BLACK.