Episode 2.011
by
Barry Pullman
Scanned by runningdog.
Original formatting duplicated as closely as possible. For clarification all
duplicate pages removed. Special note: this is a faithful duplication that
includes the original spelling, formatting and series related errors.
FIRST DRAFT - Dept. Heads' Distribution: October 11, 1990
REVISED - General Distribution: October 18, 1990 - BLUE
October 23, 1990 - PINK
Lynch/Frost Productions, Inc.
7700 Balboa Boulevard
Van Nuys, CA 91406
(818) 909-7900
Revised 10-23-90, PINK
#2.011
EXT. SHERIFF'S STATION - DAY
Establish.
INT. TRUMAN'S OFFICE
ANGLE ON MRS. BRIGGS, sitting in a chair facing TRUMAN and COOPER.
MRS. BRIGGS
I don't want to alarm you overly. Garland has
disappeared before. Granted it's always been work
related. Agent Cooper, did this seem work related?
M'am, that's very hard to say.
So Betty you're saying this behavior is part of the way the
Major operates.
MRS. BRIGGS
Let me ask you this: did he leave suddenly?
Yes. We were speaking philosophically. Then I left the
site to answer a call of nature. He was gone when I
returned.
MRS. BRIGGS
The fact that you were in the woods is very significant.
In what way?
MRS. BRIGGS
All I know is he talks about them constantly.
In what way?
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
MRS. BRIGGS
Confidential ways.
Betty, I'm afraid there's not much we can do now except
keep an eye out. He can't be considered legally missing
until after 24 hours.
Be patient, Mrs. Briggs. Your husband has a renaissance
passion for exploration. That approach creates its own
schedules.
MRS. BRIGGS
That is how he sees himself. There's no manual for it;
there's also no manual for being married to it.
Garland left some brief notes on his nightstand. I'll call
you back with them.
That might be helpful.
She exits.
Harry, Major Briggs didn't wander off on some work
assignment. That flash of light I saw signified a power; a
force that lives in those woods.
ANDY BRENNAN and HAWK enter carrying a small white department store box.
Sheriff, we found Mr. and Mrs. Milford their wedding
gifts. It's a matching scarf and ascot set.
Andy digs into the white box and pulls out two loud, almost road-kill plaid scarves.
Can't believe he's getting married again.
We should just recycle gifts from the last wedding.
Dougie's weddings are a seasonal thing. Like the return
of the salmon.
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
Marry in haste, repent in leisure.
The INTERCOM sounds.
There's a call for a Dale Crewper ... long distance. Hope
I didn't cut it off.
Temp.
Truman flips on the speaker phone. A moment passes. GORDON COLE.
HARRY, COOP? ARE WE THERE? THIS IS
GORDON COLE CALLING FROM BEND,
OREGON.
We know, Gordon. How are you?
COOP, I JUST CALLED TO SAY THAT YOU
INVESTIGATION BUSINESS. THESE ARE
HARD TIMES. WE GET THROUGH THEM.
Thanks, Gordon.
IT RANKS POOR WITH ME, TOO. NOW COOP,
IS ANY OF THIS TRUE? DOUBLE HOMOCIDE?
STOLEN DRUGS? STORMING A
WHOREHOUSE?
Gordon, it's a bunch of hogwash
ENFORCEMENT AGENCY'S STARTING TO
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
NOSE AROUND. THEY'RE SENDING DOWN A
ANGLE.
Who is it? ... WHO'S THE AGENT?
DENNIS BRYSON.
He's a good man, Harry. No nonsense.
Under which, HAWK enters.
Cooper, they're ready for you in the hearing.
That's it, Gordon. TIME TO FACE THE MUSIC.
DON'T LET'EM RATTLE YOU, COOP. THESE
OTHER PEOPLE'S DRAWERS. WE'VE ALL HAD
OUR SOCKS TOSSED AROUND. CATCH YOU
LATER.
Cole hangs up without fan fare. Cooper returns the receiver. Exchanges a look with Truman.
Wish me luck. CUT TO:
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM
Sitting at the conference table is ROGER HARDY. On each side of him are TWO MEN in
slate suits, with eyes as even as colored water. Before Hardy is an open folder, Cooper's
badge, I.D. and gun. Cooper enters, closes the door and sits down. On the table between him
and these three men sit three dark blue fedora hats.
Roger.
Dale.
A beat. The two underlings sit as still as bookends.
Showtime, Agent Cooper. You've heard the charges.
What do you wish to present in your defense?
I have no defense.
The two operatives look over at Hardy, who stares inquisitively at Cooper. The man on
Hardy's left, whose job it is to record testimony, tentatively takes down this response.
I'm completely confident in the rightness of my actions.
Some of it went down outside bureau stipulations, yes, I
accept that and I'll pay the price. But I'm innocent of
any criminal wrong doing. If they wish to charge me I'll
defend myself in a court of law.
Close the book.
Dale, there's a right way and a wrong way to do this. And
the first thing we expect a bureau man to do is stand up
for himself. A man who can't, who doesn't even try, may
be packing feathers where his spine's supposed to be.
Roger, I know the move I'm supposed to make. And I
know the board.
So ...
I've done a lot of thinking. And I've started to focus out
beyond the end of the board. On a bigger game.
What 'game'?
The sound wind makes through the pines. The sentience
of animals. The last thought of a homeless man before he
takes a night's sleep. What we fear in the dark. And
what's beyond the dark.
What the hell are you talking about?
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
I'm talking about seeing beyond fear, Roger. About
looking at the world with love.
Cooper, you're liable to be extradited for murder and
drug trafficking -
That's something I can't control -
Your suspension will continue in force. The next moves
are the Canadian government's and a DEA investigation,
which begins today.
You've cracked a big case. You've been under a lot of
pressure. I may recommend a full psychological work-up.
Thank you for your candor, Roger. So long fellas.
Cooper stands, looks over at his gun, badge and I.D. card, and starts away. ANGLE ON
those objects, still sitting on the table, as we HEAR the door shut.
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - DAY
Establish.
INT. WEIGHT ROOM
Now changed into his wrestling sweats, Mike joins other TEAM MEMBERS gathered around
the weight machines, exchanging a few perfunctory greetings before going over to a seat at the
leg press machine. Hyperventilating in preparation, he looks up at his buddies, who are
looking back at him with curiously broad adolescent grins.
His sudden premonition of dread is answered by the bluejeaned figure dropping down into the
neighboring machine seat; she sets the weight before allowing herself to peek over.
Hi, Mike.
Mike turns his head in dismay. He is both supremely irritated by, and unequipped to deal
with, this bizarre new shadow in his life. The guys are choking back amusement.
Hello.
How are you?
Just great. Listen, is there something you want?
Now, Mike ... aren't we being a little forward?
Nonplussed, Mike starts working the leg extensions. It's all Nadine can do to keep her eyes
off him. With the half-hearted dissemblance of a schoolgirl, she also starts doing leg presses;
but she is doing them with six hundred pounds of weight.
The guys have stopped kidding. The room is virtually silent but for the lifting and pounding
down of weight when the WRESTLING COACH robustly enters.
Thattaway, Nelson ... I keep telling you guys, it's leg
power that wins matches ....
He then pulls up to a stunned shuffle, seeing the magazine next to Mike's is hoisting double the
weight. Being a coach, he is quick to recover.
And what's your name, little lady?
Nadine Butler.
Tell me, Nadine ...
... ever give any thought to going out for the wrestling
team?
ANGLE ON Mike: will there be no escape from this girl?
EXT. ROADSIDE BAR - DAY
Establish. On a barren stretch of the Interstate. A shoebox along the highwayside, with a sunlit
neon shingle that reads, "The Broken Bones". Parked in the foreground is an old white Corvette
convertible with a weather-worn red interior.
INT. ROADSIDE BAR
Dark. Near empty. Clearly a place that lives on night receipts and stray afternoon beers. The
BARTENDER steals a glance over at his only customer, an intent, demure BLONDE in a
purple silk jacket, mid-twenties. A wistful sadness clings to her like perfume.
JAMES HURLEY enters, takes a seat two down and orders a beer. It arrives. The bartender
fades into the background. James takes a long first drink, aware he's being watched.
Hi.
He moves his head a quarter turn, sees her through one eye and looks back into his beer.
H'lo.
She kills the rest of a tequila, ice. There's another waiting beside it:
Headed somewhere?
I'm sorry?
Is is someplace you're going or running from?
You got it all wrong. I'm alright.
Men are always alright. Right up until they pull the
trigger.
The bartender snorts his amusement. Her return look pushes him further into the background.
Then the neighbors march solemnly out to the news
cameras to tell us, "He was such a nice, quiet guy."
I'm only quiet on the outside.
I can almost hear what's inside from here.
He relapses into a characteristic silence; feeling she's been a little harsh on this stranger, her
manner softens.
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
There was a woman involved.
A few of them. Actually.
So you were outnumbered. We don't fight fair.
'Live nearby?
Twin Peaks.
That's a nice jacket.
I'm glad you think so. Can you ... do anything with cars?
Sure. 'Having problems with that Corvette?
No. While he was away on business, I foolishly took my
husband's Dusenburg out on the road. Someone squeezed
me on the highway, I ran it into a ditch. It would be a
very good idea for me to have the car repaired before my
husband, comes home.
I could take a look.
My name's James.
Evelyn. Evelyn Marsh.
I live just up the road.
In the silence, he hears her legs crossing under the bar.
We in a hurry?
Mind if I play the box first?
I don't exactly punch a clock, myself.
James slowly steps over to the jukebox. Something about this offer feels like more than it says
it is. He puts on a slow, soulful song about a wasted, violet life.
As James stands in the jukebox light looking for his next selection, the CAMERA recedes,
leaving them to the music, the dark empty bar, the bartender cleaning glasses.
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
INT. SHERIFF'S STATION RECEPTION - DAY
ANDY BRENNAN is practicing his gun draw, taking aim at a calendar. We hear NOISE
from an entryway. Andy turns, lowered gun still absent-mindedly in hand, to see RICHARD
TREMAYNE entering with 'little brother', NICKY, a wide-eyed vulnerable-looking little
boy. Both are staring at the gun, which Andy holsters then extends a greeting to rival suitor.
Good day, Dick.
Hello, Andy. This is Little Nicky, my charge from
Happy Helping Hand. Nicky, this is Deputy Andy.
How do you do, young fella.
Hi.
Andrew, old boy, Nicky and I just stopped off at
Horne's for a new wardrobe, we're just on our way for a
malted and we were hoping Lucy could join us.
Oh shoot, Dick, Lucy's up at the Great Northern today
helping with the Milford wedding.
Oh God,. that 's right; Dougie's getting married again.
Lucy's not here?
Yes, unfortunately we'll have to meet Lucy another time.
Nicky realizes his dread: another abandonment. He looks up anxiously.
But you, you promised. Where is she?
I'm afraid Lucy's very busy right now and doesn't have
time for us.
More resonance. The child begins lightly, silently crying. This is too much for Andy.
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
You know, Dick this is just about my lunch hour ... and if
you'd like, Nicky, I'd sure enjoy taking you two guys out
for a malted. How would that be?
Oh boy!
A look of gratitude, mixed with a little suspicion from Treymayne.
10A. INT. TRUMAN'S OFFICE - DAY
Hawk and Truman enter to find Cooper, pouring coffee from a pitcher on Truman's desk.
Harry. Nine years ago I joined the bureau because I felt
it was the strongest statement I could make about the man
I wanted to become and the world I wanted to live in.
And now, suddenly all that's brushed aside. I have
absolutely no responsiblities. Nothing to do. And it
feels ...
... fantastic.
Cooper sips from his cup. Looks up at Truman with a disbelieving stare; then suddenly spits
coffee halfway across the room. Truman shakes his head in amusement.
Temp. Lucy's helping out with the Milford wedding.
Sorry about that.
That's alright. We still need to clean up Hawk's.
Drain water.
#2.011 Revised 10-1-8-90, BLUE
10A. CONTINUED:
Coop ... what will you do if you can't clear yourself?
Harry, last night, Major Briggs planted a seed in my
mind. And it's been germinating. The idea that by
focusing on our fears or desires about something, we give
them tremendous power. Consider this, Harry: perhaps
by our best-intentioned resistance of evil, we somehow
unknowingly join hands with it. Perpetuate it.
And now, being suspended, I'm suddenly empowered to
let go of my preoccupation with wrongdoing. I feel like
I've been exiled back to the natural rhythms of life.
Well, if you ever come to feel you need a home base,
there'll always be a job for you here in Twin Peaks.
Harry, in a world of continuing disorder, you are a rock.
Oh, Mrs. Briggs called. The notes beside Major Briggs's
bed? A rather detailed grocery list and a small
endearment. Nothing more.
Hawk, Harry have either of you ever heard of a place
called the White Lodge.
Can't say that I have.
Hawk's initial reply is a look of concern.
Where did you hear of it?
It was the last thing Major Briggs mentioned before he
disappeared. You know of it?
Cooper, you may be fearless in this world. But there are
other worlds.
Tell me more.
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
10A. CONTINUED:(2)
Local legend. The White Lodge is a place where the
spirits that rule man and nature here reside.
That's a place I'd like to see.
Many have tried. They say it exists only on the spiritual
plane.
Maybe I'd better pull up a chair.
There is also a legend of a place called The Black Lodge:
the shadow self of the White Lodge, a place of dark
forces that pull on this world. A world of nightmares:
shamans reduced to crying children; angry spirits pouring
from the woods; graves opening like flowers.
Dangerous.
The legend says every spirit must pass through there on
the path to perfection. There you will meet your own
shadow self. My people call it the Dweller on the
Threshold. But it is said that if you confront the Black
Lodge with imperfect courage, it will utterly annihilate
your soul.
Holy Smokes.
Just then: an intercom BUZZ. The temp's vaguely confused VOICE is heard:
TEMP'S VOICE
Agent Crewper? Agent Bryson here to see you.
Dennis and I worked together in Oakland a couple years
back. Broke a smuggling ring. One of the finest minds in
the DEA, Harry. We're in good hands.
#2.011 Revised 10-18-90, BLUE
10A. CONTINUED:(3)
A KNOCK is heard. All turn toward the door.
Coop?
They look up: leaning fetchingly against the doorframe is a thin MAN in an Ann Taylor suit.
Long skirt. Light makeup.
... Dennis?
It's a long story, but I prefer Denise if you don't mind.
Okay. This is Sheriff Truman. Deputy Hawk.
Pleased. Denise Bryson, Drug Enforcement Agency.
Oblivious to the stares, Bryson sits and opens his briefcase. He is clearly business first.
Nice ride out here ... hard to believe you even have any
crime, Sheriff, I picture you chasing lost dogs, locking
up the town drunk ...
It's a little more involved.
Let's move right through this, Dale. The DEA's interest
stems from allegations made by an RCMP officer that
you stole drugs being used by him in a sting operation.
Patently untrue: Denise, I believe I'm being set up.
My recent experience has taught me never to judge too
quickly.
I'll get right to work on this and be back to you later
today. I understand we're both staying at the Great
#2.011 Revised 10-18-90, BLUE
10A. CONTINUED:(4)
Northern. How's the food up there?
You're in for a real surprise.
So are they.
Let's catch up later. I want to tell you all about my new
life.
Pleasure to meet you, Sheriff. Deputy.
Denise goes. Cooper, Truman and Hawk. A long beat.
That's a good color for him.
INT. HIGH SCHOOL CORRIDOR - DAY
NADINE, in a whirl of adolescent energy, spots DONNA HAYWARD at her locker and
hurries over to corner her.
Donna, hi ...
Hi, Nadine. Have you heard anything from James?
You mean Ed's friend, with the motorcycle?
Yes.
He hasn't come around for a couple of days, listen, I
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
gotta ask you something, I hope you won't think this is
too personal ...
What?
Are you like, still going out with, you know, Mike or
anything?
No.
Oh, yea.
Why?
You have to promise to say anything, promise, okay?
I think there may be some major chemistry developing ...
omi God, there he is.
Mike approaches, Nadine hurries to him, girlishly leans into his path.
Hi, Mike. Guess who's thinking about going out for the
wrestling team?
Donna looks over at Mike; this can't be true. Wrestling? Mike shrugs back in the affirmative.
I promise to take it easy on you in practice.
Mike, who's had enough, smiles acidly and moves on. Nadine watches hungrily.
Look at those buns. Cowabunga.
Nadine ... what about Ed?
Aren't you ... still seeing him?
Yeah, sorta.
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
Well ... if you're seeing Ed, how can you, you know, start
seeing Mike?
Ed's at home. Mike's at school. Ed stays in. Mike likes
to go out. And let's be realistic. Sometimes Ed acts like
he's old enough to be my father. Catch you later.
That one loses Donna completely. Nadine scampers off.
INT. TRUMAN'S CABIN - AFTERNOON
JOSIE'S sitting up in bed, finishing her lunch. Truman sits at her bedside.
All right. It's time you tell me where you've been and
what you've been through. I have to know the truth. I
can't go on doing this, being with you unless I know.
Harry ...
He takes her hand gently but firmly away from his face.
The truth.
I used to work for a man in Hong Kong. His name is
Thomas Eckhardt. He ... helped me. He took me off the
streets when I was sixteen. If you're from a poor family,
sometimes they ... sell the female children. I was lucky.
Truman struggles to keep his emotional resolve.
He taught me about life and he taught me about business.
He was my father. My master. My lover. I never
questioned him or anything he did. Then a day came
when I learned too much. He had a man killed, a business
partner who had wronged him. Murdered. I saw it done.
Did you go to the police?
He owns the police. When I met Andrew Packard I was
already afraid for my life. Andrew was also a business
partner. He was good and kind, and when he asked me to
marry him, I said yes, to come with him, and to get away
from Eckhardt.
Who was this Mr. Lee? Your "cousin?"
Harry, I'm sorry. I was trying to keep you out of this.
The less you know the better -
Who was he?
That man works for Eckhardt. And he said if I didn't go
back with him he would kill you.
Why?
Because Eckhardt wants me. He's never stopped wanting
me. He think I'm his property. When Andrew was alive
he could protect me. I now believe Eckhardt is the man
responsible for Andrew's death.
Jonathan was driving me to the airport in Seattle. I
jumped out of the car. I'd rather die. I'd rather die than
go back to that monster ...
Josie, stop. You're here with me.
Now he'll kill both of us.
Truman takes her in his arms. Quiet. Determined.
Let him try.
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
INT. DOUBLE R DINER - DAY
Andy, Tremayne, and Little Nicky sit together at the counter. Nicky seated angelically,
between them. Norma enters, pours a refill, spots a new customer seated nearby. Roger
Hardy looks up from his newspaper.
May I help you?
I'd like a cup of coffee, please. And some of that pie I
keep hearing about.
Coming up. You won't be disappointed.
Norma turns to go. But familiar voices catch her attention. HANK and ERNIE enter,
singing a hunting song, spirited and sleepless from the expedition. Ernie looks far the more
worn; he as clearly had his clock cleaned by a thorough professional.
Hello, sunshine. Can we get some coffee?
Hank drifts toward the back, Ernie drops onto a counter seat, where Norma immediately
draws him some coffee. Ernie trombones into a handkefchief.
How was the hunting expedition? Catch anything?
Hope not.
Catch anything? I came across a twelve-point buck
standing by a deepwater stream; looked me right in the
eye, wouldn't budge. Almost like he was toying with
me. I made a soft approach, lined him up dead center
and...
A steady eye. A steady hand. That's the secret.
She hands him his coffee, smelling more bourbon on him than bush. Knows he's lying.
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
20 A.
You should have taken along a camera. Is it being
mounted?
Ah ... yes, probably as we speak. It was great. Just great.
Well, I'm going back to check in on your momma.
She went back to Seattle.
Seattle?
That's where you should go, too.
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
Hank returns from the back. Ernie pulls away from Norma.
Take care, Ernie.
Hey, buddy, what's with the long puss.
Vivian's gone back to Seattle.
Better for you, buckeroo. You've got four kilos to unload,
you don't want the ball and chain getting in the way, do you?
I suppose not.
Better hit the phones, Hot Rod. We're on a deadline.
Ernie starts unenthusiastically toward the pay phone; Hank heads back to the kitchen. PICK
UP Norma as she delivers their orders to little Nicky, Andy and Treymayne.
Two coffees, two pieces of three-berry pie ...
How much does that cost?
I'm sure I don't know. And one super snow-frosted Twin
Peaks DoubleR chocolate malted.
Looks just like White Tail Mountain, doesn't it Nicky?
With a sudden burst from his little lungs, Nicky blows fiercely at the cream, causing it to fly
up into Andy's face. Tremayne laughs like a hyena. Andy fumbles for some napkins.
Sorry, Uncle Andy.
Andy smiles. Uncle. Who could not love this kid?
Now you look like White Tail Mountain, Andrew.
Looks like you got a little on you too, Nicholas. We
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK,
don't want to filthy up that stylish little shirt.
Tremayne reaches across Nicky to the napkin dispenser. Nicky begins rolling the base of his
malted along its circumference, like a tiring spun coin, then accidentally lets it drop forward,
spilling his malted all over the extended left arm of Tremayne's natty, expensive sport coat.
Damn it! Damn it!
Nicky immediately begins to cry.
That's okay. It's fine, Nicky. It's completely all right.
Tremayne reaches over the counter for some more serious cleanup materials. Andy leans away
from the chocolate spreading over the counter to lunge for some napkins. Little Nicky, with
slightly unexpected strength gives Andy's stool a mighty spin. Still facing away from them
as he cleans himself off, Andy lowers himself back onto the edge of his seat, hits the spinning
stool and flies directly to the floor. Norma and Tremayne look up from their mopwork.
CLOSE ON Nicky, his cherubic face still streaked with whipped cream, the slight upward
curve of his lips suggesting a tiny, unsettling smile.
EXT. EVELYN'S HOUSE
Establish. An expansive house backing into a forest.
INT. OPEN GARAGE - DAY
James and Evelyn stand beside her husband's Dusenberg up on blocks.
I got a garage man to come out yesterday. Not that I
understood a single word he said. Something vague about
the front axle? He said he'll have to order it from God
knows where.
Germany. Your garage man's playing it safe. I can put
this right. God, it's really beautiful.
She comes around closer, half-curious.
Jeffrey loves this car. My husband. Loves the car.
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
Where is your husband, Mrs. Marsh?
I'm not sure this week. He travels extensively. Business.
The car was built in 1923. Jeffrey has to have the most
unique and beautiful toys. And they have to be perfect.
He's that way about everything he owns.
I could have learned something from that; if I'd been
paying attention.
Are you that way, James? ... About your bike?
Guess I'm not so interested in how my bike looks as I am
in where it can take me.
Where do you want to go?
It's not a place. It's a feeling.
(coming up from the car, looking out at the
road)
Sometimes riding at night, I punch off my headlight, turn
up the throttle and just go for it.
So ... think you can fix it?
Sure.
There's a room above the garage. You can stay there while
you work. If you like. Room and board. Whatever else
you think is fair. I really do need to have it done before
Jeffrey returns.
I'd like you to stay, James. I'd enjoy the company.
Okay.
Good. It's settled then. I'll leave you to it.
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
James glances at her, feeling this fresh allure. She turns and starts away. James wonders a little
at her tone, and what he might be getting himself into.
INT. BEN HORNE'S OFFICE - DAY
START CLOSE on a projector screen surrounded by darkness. Flickering before us is silent
footage of Ben as a young boy, eagerly witnessing a groundbreaking ceremony. Images of
young Ben, Jerry, their bearded FATHER, dance across the screen. Horne Sr. shoves a spade
into the ground, unearths the ceremonial soil. All clap and celebrate. Smiles abound. In a
background a large sign proclaims: FUTURE SITE OF THE GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL.
It's a sentimental journey back to a simpler time and place.
PULL BACK from the screen into the darkened office, shades drawn, to Ben, seated in the
screen's reflected light watching his old glory days, sipping from a crystal glass, a nearly
empty bourbon bottle beside him, cigar smoke snaking up through the projector's beam. Then,
quietly at first, eyes fixed upon the screen ... Ben recites:
"Now is the winter of our discontent/Made glorious
summer by this sun of York; And in all the clouds that
lour'd upon our house/In the deep bosom of the ocean
buried./Now are our brows bound with victorious
wreaths; Our bruised arms hung up for monuments; Our
stern alarums changed to merry meetings; Our dreadful
marches to delightful measures."
A door opens. The silhouette in the doorway causes Ben to immediately douse the projector
and turn on his desk lamp. On the desk are a box of kleenex and several silver gravity toys.
Hank enters.
A stag party. And I wasn't even invited.
Hank, where have you been?
Ben, I have had an absolutely killer schedule.
Do you know what kind of hell I've been through the last
few days? You said you took care of Catherine in the
mill fire: she's alive. And as you might imagine, not
happy about it. Through extortion and trickery, she's now
managed to cheat me out of both Ghostwood and the
mill. And then there's the small matter of my being
arrested for killing Laura Palmer, a real business-
enhancer, on top of which my trusted solicitor, the late
Leland Palmer turns out to a homocidal lunatic!
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
Ben's eye is drawn to Laura's picture on his desk. He grows somber.
Tough week, Ben.
Do you think the furniture in this room is arranged
adequately? I've been toying with the notion that if one
could find the proper spatial relationship between all the
objects in a given space, it could create a resonance the
benefits of which to the individual dwelling in that space
could be extensive and far reaching. Help me move this
desk, would you?
Ben asks for a hand with the desk.
That's fascinating, Ben, really, listen, though, what we
have to do now is talk about One-Eyed Jacks.
Jacks, yes, One-Eyed Jacks, uh-huh.
Here's how it is, Ben. Ben, you're out.
Excuse me? I own One-Eyed Jack's.
There's been a friendly takeover.
You walk in here under my employ and have the gall -
Oh, that's another thing. I don't work for you anymore.
Renault. Jean Renault. It's Renault, isn't it?
Hank, that man is a psychopath. A psychopath! You're
dancing with the devil!
Ben, you're a nut.
#2.011 Revised 10-18-90, BLUE
You think I'm going to sit here and take this lying down?
Ben. Life is change Listen to me when I tell you this is
how it's going to be -
Don't patronize me, you goon.
Hank steps forward and gives Ben a long look. A Hank special. The room's power shifts.
Look at you. You're a mess. You screwed up, boss man.
You're out, Ben.
Hank exits. Ben glares at the door, then glances over at the burbon bottle. The blank
projector screen, the hum of the projector. He pours himself a drink, slouches back in the chair,
bathed in the light of the projector. A beat. Ben manages a bizarre smile and makes shadow
puppets on the wall. Little dancing rabbits for his own amusement
INT. GREAT NORTHERN LOBBY - DAY
Wedding preparations are in evidence. A bad ACCORDIAN PLAYER is warming up in
background. Cooper enters, makes his way to the front desk to collect his mail.
18A. INT. COOPER'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY
Cooper enters his hotel room, notices a larger envelope among the others. He opens it. Inside
is a micro-cassette and a card that reads: P to Q4
Windom Earle.
Cooper quickly takes out his recorder. He pops the tape in and hits play and listens with
growing horror ...
#2.011 Revised 10-18-90, BLUE
18A. CONTINUED:
WINDOM EARLE'S VOICE
Of course you couldn't help but take note of my
emphatically traditional opening. I must say your
responding move was nothing if not reflective of your
predeliction for the tidy and fastidious. See how my
response to you begins to lead us towards a classical
confrontation? But there's doubt in your mind: what are
my true intentions? How will you answer this time?
Hobgoblins, Dale; consistency, predictibility, giving rise
to patterns. We both know only too well how these
patterns leave you vulnerable to attack. You with your
wounds. I with mine. Let me paint you a picture. My
knights will skirmish. Lanes of power and influence will
open to my bishops and rooks. Pawns will naturally be
forfeit. I'm even prepared to sacrifice my queen because
I assure you, dear Dale, my goal will be attained at any
cost. The king must die.
The tape ends. Cooper grows pale.
#2.011 Revised 10-18-90, BLUE
INT. GREAT NORTHERN DINING ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON
Before the fireplace, the wedding ceremony of DOUGIE and LANA BUDDING is in
progress. Steady and easy, Dougie stands in a herringbone sports jacket and evergreen slacks.
Lana, her full body alight with flows of white and pink chiffon, looks something like an
exploding birthday cake.
The REVEREND performs the ceremony with a respectful air, seemingly dissembling his
own skepticism. The best man is PETE MARTELL; the maid of honor AUDREY HORNE.
Beyond them is a half-moon gallery seated in Great Northern dining chairs, with no separation
based on family (hers is not there). Some of those seated are Truman, Andy, Hawk, LOG
LADY, and a disgusted DWAYNE MILFORD, patting the hand of an older, blue-haired
WOMAN. Her stone-face suggests she is less than thrilled with the ongoing nuptials.
Do you, Douglas Milford, take this woman to be your
wife, to love and cherish, for as long as you both shall live.
You bet, Reverend.
And do you, Lana Budding, take this man to be your
husband, to love honor and obey, so long as you both shall
live?
I do, your Honor.
If there be anyone here who knows not why this union
should be made, let him speak now or forever hold his -
You're damned straight I object - that little
golddigger's after his money, his publishing empire, and
God knows what else - look at him, he's already got one
foot in the grave!
Truman and Hawk quickly hustle Dwayne off into the background.
Okay, easy there, Mr. Mayor.
#2.011 Revised 10-18-90, BLUE
Why isn't anybody from her family here? Any of you
asked yourselves that? Kind of peculiar, don't you think?
Pause. Dougie quietly comforts Lana.
Don't give it another thought, doll.
So if there are no further objections ...
INT. COOPER'S ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON
Cooper stands at his window, tape machine in hand.
Diane, I am standing at the window of my room at the
Great Northern, looking down at the wedding of Dougie
Milford and his youthful bride. The ceremony appears
quite simple; the groom, commencing his fifth marriage,
has apparently honed the procedure down to the bone.
The reception will be starting shortly and a good deal of
alcohol will undoubtedly be consumed in order to
accomodate our culturally prevelant rally discomfort with
mystery and ritual.
(turns from window, sets down recorder, begins
to dress, speaks while peering in mirror)
Diane, I anticipate your question. I am not down among
the revelers because my mind is burdened with questions:
what's become of Major Briggs? What is the true
significance of the White and Black Lodge? Has the
Major, clearly a man of no small spiritual advancement,
perhaps been attempting to make contact with some
element of these places in his top-secret work? Briggs is a
man of clear eye and deep thought; he sees right through
the illusory texture of this world and fluently reads
beneath it. You might meet a handful like him in a
lifetime. But if what Hawk has related to me about the
Black Lodge is true, even a man of Briggs' considerable
fortitude would be tested to his ultimate limits.
In an even darker corner of my thoughts is my old partner,
Windom Earle, the man who, prior to his utter mental
and emotional collapse, burned with a brilliance I doubt
I will ever see the equal of. Add to that the things I've
witnessed here at Twin Peaks: the tremendous evil forces
that linger on the periphery of this genuine, spirited little
town. The darkness Laura Palmer submitted to. The
#2.011 Revised 10-18-90, BLUE
vortex that swallowed and consumed Leland Palmer ...
Diane, as a human being learns and matures, one's
experiences grow proportionately more rich and
mysterious. Perhaps the questions I now seek answers to
lie beyond the old perameters. Beyond my life at the
bureau.
The phone rings. He clicks off. Picks up.
Cooper ... yes, Denise ... I'll be right down.
He hangs up, stands to put his coat on, clicks on the recorder one more time.
Diane, when I've got a bit more time, remind me to tell
you about Agent Bryson ...
INT. GREAT NORTHERN BAR WEDDING RECEPTION - NIGHT
A mix of local townspeople and Dougie's friends. Cooper works his way through to find
Dennis/Denise waiting at the bar.
Bad news first. I found cocaine residue in your car. My
guess is it's going to be a match to lot stolen from the
Mountie.
Dennis, this can't look straight to you.
Denise.
Sorry.
Sure it looks like a frame, Coop. But I'm going to need
more than your opinion to make that stick.
Can you help me?
That gets into a delicate area. But on the other hand I'm
trying very hard lately to be more in touch with my
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
feelings ...
Could I have another daquiri please?
Dennis, if you don't mind my asking, what the hell
happened to you?
Not at all. It's good to talk about it. It's simple,
really. Last year I was working undercover on a suburban
surveillance, some Bolivians were moving coke out of a
house across the street ... the seller had a few kinks, his rep
was he'd only sell to transvestites. So my partner and I
shacked up. I played the buyer and I found that wearing
women's clothes ... relaxed me. I continued wearing them
into the night. My partner thought it was my consummate
professionalism. It was a very confusing two weeks.
To say the least.
So one thing led to another and I'm currently into a
specialized kind of program called Gender Relocation
Inhibition Therapy, or G.R.I.T. Part of my treatment is
to dress the part for six months prior to any further
therapy; hormones, electrolysis -
This is all a pretty astounding disclosure, Denise.
Imagine how surprised I was. This isn't something you
exactly plan on.
A happy commotion from the reception across the room.
Seated a small table along the way, Pete and Dwayne sit over a couple drinks, watching
Dougie cuddle with his bride over the cutting of the wedding cake.
She started by taking one of Dougie's college classes.
Ethics in Modern Journalism. Two things I guarantee you
that little bird knows nothing about. Three weeks later
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
she's landed a job writing for the Gazette. Dougie's
always been a sucker. A woman walks by with play in her
eyes and jello in her walk, and he's a trout on a hook.
We all kinda' live in that glass house, don't you think,
Dwayne?
I was married to the same woman for half a century, god
rest her soul. That's because I think with my brain, not
my garden hose -
Music turned out pretty good.
Oughta' be a death march.
Across the room, Lana holds the ceremonial bouquet before a host of eager women. She flings
it up into a looping flight, from where it's suddenly snatched by an agile Denise. There's some
surly mumbling amongst the other girls about the bouquet-snagging by this ringer. Denise
sashays back to the bar, where Truman has now joined Cooper.
Unfair advantage. How many of those girls were Varsity
wide receivers?
Hope those two go up to the honeymoon suite soon. We've
had to separate Dwayne and Dougie twice. Happens
every wedding. My theory is Dwayne's jealous.
The ensemble music kicks up again. Denise looks a little wistful. Lana and Dougie swing by
in greeting.
Sheriff, arrest this woman. She's too beautiful to be
living in this state.
Dougie, you say the sweetest things...
Aren't you the FBI man?
Not currently, no.
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
Truman and Bryson's respectful silence.
Dale Cooper.
You solved the Laura Palmer case.
Come on, my darling, they're playing our tune.
They move off. Coming up on the periphery of this circle is Audrey Horne, approaching
Cooper, who pivots slightly on his barstool, folding them into a semi-private exchange.
Excuse me. Didn't you ... rescue me once?
That's one version of the story.
One last dance?
Cooper accompanies her off to the dance floor. Denise sways slightly. It is now just he and
Truman. And Andy, hovering nearby.
I love this music.
God ... I feel a little awkward. I .. would you ...
Truman's eyes widen with understanding. It's a waltz. Not that it really matters what it is.
I'm not ... much of a dancer.
An awkward pause.
May I have this dance?
Thank you.
Denise takes Andy's arm, as they move over toward the floor.
He's a nice guy but everybody's got their limits.
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
Pete and Lana dancing, with a surprising compatibility.
You dance like a scream.
Thanks. You move very smoothly, too.
Thanks.
Lana looks at him with bubbly respect. MOVE OFF to Cooper dancing with Audrey.
I heard you might be in trouble.
Trouble in this instance, Audrey, may be a door to a new
way of looking at the world.
I guess you could say that about everything you do.
That's my hope, Audrey and my aspiration.
Well, if you ever decide to come down off the mountain
top and mingle with us regular folks, I'd like to hear
some of your stories.
It's a deal. I hope they're interesting ones.
She smiles. He returns it. MOVE OFF them to Andy and Denise; Denise is an excellent
dancer. And, surprise ... so is Andy. HOLD ON them for a beat. Something absurd and sweet
in Harry's gentlemanly acceptance. Couples now swirl about CAMERA, in a celebratory
rhythm ...
INT. BLUE PINE LODGE - NIGHT
CLOSE ON a framed photograph on the table: it is a closeup of Andrew Packard. SHOT
OPENS to show Josie Packard enter this living room and take a seat. CATHERINE
MARTELL sits assuredly across from her behind the desk.
Thank you for seeing me.
#2.011 Revised 10-23-90, PINK
Catherine says nothing; her eyes give a quick glimmer of amusement.
Believe it or not, I came here to help you.
I won't waste your time. Your brother, my husband,
Andrew Packard ...
... was killed by a man named Thomas Eckhardt.
Catherine's face retains its emotionless appearance.
Eight years ago, Andrew got the better of Eckhardt in a
business deal. Eckhardt never forgets a slight. He sets an
hour aside every day to think about how he will ruin his
enemies. In this case, I was his answer. He introduced
me to Andrew. I was to make Andrew fall in love with
me, marry him and eventually help Eckhardt kill him.
Josie pauses, awaiting Catherine's response. She looks back in quiet arrogance.
Dear, your slip is showing.
Excuse me?
Tell me something I don't already know.
A beat. Josie hides her dismay.
Eckhardt is the most evil man I've ever known. His
design was to ruin the Packard family, not just Andrew.
I've escaped him for the moment, but he'll come back for
me. And for you. That is why I'm here.
How endearing.
Catherine, you're in terrible danger.
You help kill my brother, try to cheat me out of my land,
my family's lifeblood, utterly destroy my existence and
now you want to save me.
#2.011 Revised 10-18-90, BLUE
I had to do those things to stay alive. There is no one else
I can turn to. My insurance payment has been held up
pending an arson investigation. Ben gave me a five
million dollar check that is utterly worthless.
How unfortunate ...
I have no money. I am at your mercy.
Having tired of this entertainment, Catherine moves a pawn forward.
Enough. Save your tears. Be practical: what do you
propose we do?
I don't know ...
Catherine's thoughtful moment. Josie watches her.
Then I'll tell you. From now on, you work for me. Here
at the house. As a maid. You'll move your things to the
servant's quarters. If you disobey me, if you lie to me, if
you contradict a single thing I tell you, I'll find this
Eckhardt myself and feed you to him by hand. Is that
clear?
Josie is shocked. Chastened.
Speak.
Yes I understand.
Fine. We'll talk about this Eckhardt and what we plan to
do another time. You may go to your room.
Yes. Thank you.
I'll take breakfast at seven in my room. Coffee, juice,
#2.001 Revised 10-23-90, PINK,
dry toast, oatmeal.
Yes.
Sweet dreams.
Josie goes. ANGLE back onto the table's photograph of Andrew. A NOISE from inside the
house. Someone entering this room.
SHOT OPENS to reveal a MAN standing beside the table. It is the man in the photograph.
ANDREW PACKARD.
Happy, Andrew?
Everything is going exactly as we planned.
And now ... ?
And now, dear sister. We wait for Thomas Eckhardt to
come looking for his one true love. And when he does ...
... We'll be waiting for him.
HOLD ON Packard for a beat. His confident assent.