1A. EXT. WOODS - DAY
MAJOR BRIGGS sits in an armchair in the middle of a fog forest clearing. It's an odd
image. As if it occurred inside his mind. Briggs' moods shifts with great alacrity, alternating
between inchoate rambling and coherence, as if someone had popped his mental cork.
I ... I remember stepping from the flames, a vague shape
in the dark ... then nothing. Until I found myself standing
by the cold remains of our campfire. Two days later.
VOICES enter the Major's dreamscape. Dr. Hayward and Agent Cooper.
HAYWARD'S VOICE
Major, there are some new therapeutic techniques that
might help us to break through your amnesia.
My memories are immune to regression. I can feel
them, they are palpable. The smell and sensations...
everything is known to me. Yet somehow beyond my
reach.
COOPER'S VOICE
Do you remember anything else?
Very little. Save for one disturbing image. A giant
owl. Pervasive.
COOPER'S VOICE
A giant owl. How big?
a flash of blinding LIGHT, the image of a screeching OWL flying fast
and low, and a second FLASH leading us to...
INT. SHERIFF'S CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY
Briggs seated in the same armchair inside the conference room. AGENT COOPER and
SHERIFF TRUMAN gather around him. DR. HAYWARD completes a physical exam, has
just snapped a poloroid of the Major's head - hence the second FLASH of light.
Enough to cloud my mind and memory.
#2.013.1 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
(receiving undeveloped print, reporting his
findings)
Three triangular scars behind his right ear. In perfect
proportion.
Major Briggs, exactly what kind of work do you do?
That information is, as I have repeated endlessly to
myself ... classified. Though the keeping of secrets
seems less meaningful to me now.
Perhaps there are sources of information that transcend
the human need to conspire. Information of such weight
that it pertains not to the ...
My God, is this meant for the soul, my soul ...?
Maybe you should start at the beginning.
Are you familiar with Project Blue Book?
The Air Force project dedicated to the investigation of
Unidentified Flying Objects.
Officially disbanded in 1969. But there are those of us
who continue in an unofficial capacity. Examining the
heavens as before. And, in the case of Twin Peaks, the
earth below.
We are searching for a place called the White Lodge -
Cooper reacts, remembers Hawk's stories. But before he can answer... a knock at the door,
followed by the entrance of two stern UNIFORMED MP'S.
MP #1
Major Briggs?
#2.013.1 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
I've been expecting you.
Briggs rises to join them. The MP's mean to escort him to the door. Truman protests.
Now wait just one minute...
MP #1
Colonel Reilly's orders.
I'm afraid we will have to continue this discussion at a
later date. Goodbye.
With that, the MP's lead Briggs from the room. Hayward looks at the poloroid, now
developed. He hands it to Agent Cooper. Three scars behind the Majors right ear in perfect
proportion. Just then: a drop of WATER falls from above, splatters upon the image From a
fire sprinkler overhead. Just like the one that heralded Bob's flight to freedom.
HARRY'S OFFICE - DAY
ERNIE NILES stares at the telephone on Truman's desk as if, it was his worst enemy.
DENISE BRYSON stands nearby, gestures toward it.
Go ahead, Ernie. It won't bite.
A lot you know. We're dealing with a murderous thug
here. Not that I haven't had plenty of dealings with his
kind before. Jean Renault is a hard man, but I've known
men who'd make him quiver -
Ernie.
All right, all right, all right.
Ernie picks up the receiver. Just then: Cooper and Truman step into the room. Startled, Ernie
returns the receiver to its cradle with a resounding SLAM.
Sorry.
#2.013.1 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
Setting the buy?
Trying to. Ernie's a little gunshy.
Gunshy? Ernie Niles is bold as bold can be. Let me at
him.
Please don't make me do this. This is suicide. I know.
I'm begging you, please. I don't want to. I'm begging.
Denise deadpans, gestures toward the telephone. A long beat. Ernie sighs, dials. Someone
answers. He pales a bit, pauses, then, meekly:
May I please speak to Jean Renault?
A STATION CORRIDOR - DAY
Deputy ANDY BRENNEN enters a corridor, finds Tremayne waiting for him.
Andrew, where have you been?
Cat in tree.
A peace officer's work is never done. Lucky for us my
efforts bore more palatable fruit.
I paid the Happy Helping Hand adoption agency a visit
where several blue-haired ladies were only too happy to
sup from my open palm. Unfortunately, all of Little
Nicky's records had been sealed and returned to the
Orphanage.
We'll never know what really happened to Little Nicky's
parents.
Courage, Andrew. Do not despair. Next stop: that
selfsame Orphanage. And Little Nicky's records
within.
#2.013.1 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
Maybe we should tell Lucy.
Absolutely not. Our investigation into Nicky's past
must proceed sub rosa. This, dear boy, is strictly a
man's job.
Follow me.
Andy and Tremayne exit. Lucy peeks out of her cubicle, curious. All she SEES is Agent
Cooper as he approaches. Cooper wonders:
Any luck, Lucy?
I checked the personals columns in every national
newspaper on the list and I didn't find anything that
looked like a chess thing or any mention of the name
Windom Earle. Sorry.
Cooper gives Lucy an encouraging pat, and turns toward the door.
EXT. DOUBLE R DINER - DAY
Establish.
5A. INT. DOUBLE R DINER - DAY
ED HURLEY finishes breakfast at the counter. NORMA JENNINGS hands him his check.
The latter occurs under the watchful eye of HANK JENNINGS, standing to the rear.
Everything all right, Ed?
Just fine, thanks. For you.
Ed rises, hands her a bill. And a NOTE beneath it. Norma reacts, tucks the note into her apron.
#2.013 Revised 11-16-90, CHERRY
'Bye now
They exchange a meaningful glance. Ed exits. And behind them, his eyes dark with anger and
suspicion, Hank watches every single move.
MIKE NELSON enjoys a morning cup of coffee. His respite is shattered by the sudden
appearance of NADINE HURLEY at the stool beside him.
Good morning, Mike Nelson!
Oh, Lord.
Wanna share a soda? How about a nice big piece of
cherry pie. Two forks.
Mrs. Hurley, Nadine, I want my own piece of cherry pie.
In fact, I want two pieces of cherry pie for myself
Okay. Meat loaf!
Cherry pie and coffee. In fact, sixteen cups of coffee.
I don't want to talk with you. I don't want to walk with
you. I don't want to see you. I don't want to know you.
Is that clear enough to understand? Or will I need a
court order to get my point across?
A long beat. Nadine's worldview severely challenged. She bows her head for a beat,
chastised. Then looks up, the light of love not yet extinguished in her eyes.
Mike Nelson you are the handsomest boy I've ever
known. And I would really like it if you and I could go
out on a date.
A beat of stunned silence. Suddenly - Nadine gives Mike a kiss. Deep, much deeper than he
has ever been kissed before. And more sexual than the kisses of a hundred high school girls.
013
Finally, Nadine releases him, beams.
Sorry. Sometimes I can't help myself.
Mike pauses, stunned. By both the kiss ... and how much he liked it.
HANK enters from the kitchen, carrying an order. He pauses to watch NORMA
JENNINGS grab car keys and purse from a shelf beneath the register.
Where're you headed?
I've got a couple errands.
Little early for errands, isn't it? We've still got most of
the breakfast crowd.
Think of this as a test, Hank. Just you, an a kitchen full
of scrambled eggs. I'll be right back.
Norma exits. Hank watches her go. She lied to him and he knows it.
EXT. LEO JOHNSON'S HOUSE - DAY
Establish.
INT. LEO JOHNSON'S HOUSE - DAY
SHELLY JOHNSON directs a spoonful of cereal into LEO JOHNSON's mouth. But Leo
sputters, gurgles, and half the cereal spews out upon the table. And Shelly.
Dammit. It's your turn to feed him.
BOBBY BRIGGS, seated opposite, looks up from his paper. Like a beleaguered husband no
longer satisfied with happy memories.
#2.013.1 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
I got practice.
Football season is over.
This is baseball, baby. Our national pastime.
Okay. Then you can wash him when you get back.
I'm not coming back.
What did you say?
You're lookin' at Ben Horne's brand new boy. Do the
words "golden opportunity" mean anything to you? This
is my big break. And I've got better things to do than
give Leo Johnson a bubble bath.
And what about me? Don't I have anything better to do?
Not that I can think of.
He didn't mean it. Shelly SLAPS him hard across the face. Bobby stares at her for a beat.
Then turns and walks out the door. Shelly yells after:
Bobby!!!!
INT./EXT. MARSH GARAGE - DAY
JAMES HURLEY at the garage phone. He dials, waits.
Uncle Ed? Yeah, it's me ... I'm okay. Listen. I need a
favor. Get the money out of my savings account,
whatever's left. And send it care of me to The Broken
Bones, it's a bar out on 96...
#2.013.1 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
James senses someone close by, looks up. It's EVELYN MARSH, standing quite still in the
garage doorway. She wears dark sunglasses. James stares at her for a beat, returns to Big Ed on
the phone.
... I can't explain. I'll call you later. Got to go.
James lowers the receiver from his lips. Evelyn steps closer, she smiles.
Long distance?
Twin Peaks.
Are you homesick, James?
No.
Evelyn runs her hand along the Jaguar's sleek lines. As she approaches, James can see a bruise
beneath her right eye. A wound the sunglasses cannot completely hide.
Tell me about Twin Peaks.
There isn't much to say.
You could start with why you left. A woman, as I recall.
Two of them.
Evelyn's keeping it light. A gentle flirtation. James responds quietly, lets a secret out of his
heart.
I loved a girl who died.
Evelyn stops still to face him.
Her name was Laura. I thought I knew her but I didn't.
Nobody did.
#2.013 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
I'm sorry.
My life used to make sense, you know? I didn't like it
all the time. But it was mine and I felt like it belonged
to me. Then Laura died. And the whole world went
crazy. Suddenly my life belonged to something else.
To Laura. And no matter what I did, or how much I
tried to help, and I tried, I really did...
Another girl died. And all I wanted to do was get on
my bike and ride as far away from Twin Peaks as it
would take me.
James pauses, deeply shaken. Evelyn steps to him, takes James into her arms. A long beat.
She whispers:
I know the feeling, James. I know the feeling.
Their mouths come closer together, awkward, shy. They kiss. James gently removes her
sunglasses. He wants to see into her eyes. A long beat. James traces the bruise on her check
with his fingertips.
Why do you let him hurt you?
Evelyn takes his hand, presses it against her lips. She will not answer. Instead, she kisses James
with great passion. Their embrace deepens. Suddenly: the SOUND of a car pulling up the drive.
Evelyn steps out of James' arms, looks to the main house. MALCOM steps out of a limousine,
pauses to shoot a warning glance in their direction. Then proceeds inside.
Jeffrey's leaving.
Evelyn turns back to James, whispers before leaving.
I need you. Will you help me?
Evelyn hurries out of the garage without waitin for an answer. HOLD ON James for a beat.
Considering his reply.
#2.013.1 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
INT. BLUE PINE LODGE - DAY
JOSIE PACKARD answers a knock at the kitchen door. It's Sheriff Truman.
Harry.
Two days, Josie. Two nights. And not a word.
I'm sorry.
What the hell are you doing here?
This is my home.
After everything you told me? Home with Catherine?!
I have no choice.
Josie turns from him, she cannot bear his gaze. But he reaches after, pulls her into his arms.
Let me take care of you. Please.
Don't you understand? I'm safe here. And you are safe as
well.
No.
Look at me. I am Catherine Packard's maid.
Go away, Harry. I'm no good for you now.
Truman steps closer, he sees the servant's clothing, the tears that shine in her eyes.
I want you. Good or bad. I don't care.
#2.013.1 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
Truman reaches for her blouse, unfastens it.
Harry ...
I want you.
With that, Truman removes her blouse; she reaches for his shirt, they begin to make love.
FADE OUT.
#2.013.1 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
INT. GREAT NORTHERN CORRIDOR - DAY
AUDREY HORNE wanders down the corridor outside her father's office. She pauses, hears
Ben shouting inside.
BEN'S VOICE
Dammit, Longstreet. We may have come to this
godforsaken town in search of shoes, but we will leave it
with Grant on his knees, and our sights set on
Washington!
Audrey reacts, steps toward the office door.
INT. GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL - DAY
Audrey enters, finds an amazing tableau within. BEN HORNE has transformed the floor of
his office into a huge diorama depicting the Battle of Gettysburg, complete with rolling hills,
tiny trees, miniature soldiers in uniform. And a chugging train that hoots about the periphery.
Lost in combat, Ben holds two toy soldiers, continues a conversation between them. Ben is
dressed in the requisite finery of a Southern General.
Yessir, General Lee.
Longstreet, I want you to lead the assault on the Round
Tops. Ewell will take Culp's Hill -
Daddy ... ?
Yes, Culp's Hill, are you deaf? And where's Jeb Stuart
and his calvary?! Damn his eyes!!
Jeb's a-comin', Sir. I know it.
He'd better be. For all our sakes. We meet the enemy
here. And we meet him by morning.
DADDY!!
Horne freezes, looks up from battle. Wild-eyed and disheveled.
#2.013 Revised 11-12-90, YELLOW
Suddenly it's daybreak.
What in the world are you doing?
THERE'S A CIVIL WAR GOING ON HERE.
War?
The war between the states. And who are you?
Audrey, your daughter, and you need some help.
Thank you but I just want to be left alone, this is an
important day.
This is an important day, alright, we've got a business to
save. You and me. And I am going to help you.
Audrey?
Yes, Daddy?
You're standing on General Stuart.
She moves. Ben snatches the soldier from under her feet.
We spotted ol' Jeb, General Lee. He brought us a
hundred and twenty-five wagons.
#2.013.1 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
Fool, I have no use for wagons! I need my eyes and ears
beside me. Bring me General Stuart!! Ready the good
men of the Alabama 15th!! On to Victory!!
Audrey can't believe it. She holds back a sob, turns and runs from the office. Leaving her
father - and the Civil War - behind. Ben doesn't notice.
INT. HURLEY HOUSE - DAY
BIG ED HURLEY steps nervously about the living room, checks a clock on the knickknack
shelf. Just then: a KNOCK at the door. Ed answers it. Norma steps inside, still wearing her
Double R uniform. An awkward beat. Neither sure just what to say or do. Then:
Norma, I've been thinking -
Ed, I came here so I could -
You first.
Okay. When I go to bed, you're the last thing I think of.
When I wake up, you're the first thing on
my mind. I know the world's gone to pieces. And I
know it all seems designed to keep us apart. But there's
one thing bad luck never takes into account. We love
each other, Ed. And I think we have to stand up to that.
No matter what.
A beat. Ed takes her into his arms, they kiss deeply.
Your turn.
Ed?
Later.
Norma smiles, returns his kisses with greater fervor.
#2.013 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
EXT. SHERIFF'S STATION - DAY
Establish.
INT. SHERIFF TRUMAN'S OFFICE - DAY
START CLOSE on hands attaching a hidden microphone to a rather sweaty chest. A
protesting voice is heard. Ernie Niles.
ERNIE'S VOICE
Careful. Watch the chest hair. Ouch.
ANOTHER ANGLE reveals Sheriff Truman, Agent Cooper. And DEPUTY HAWK
fitting Niles with the wire, putting baby powder on his chest.
You're sweating like a pig, Mr. Niles.
I suffer from nervous perspiration. Hyperhidrosis. It's a
childhood condition. Though I never really noticed it
until the war ...
... Korea. I was leading a battalion toward the forty-
ninth parallel. Just a bunch of young, fresh-faced kids,
no idea what kind of hell we were about to step into -
Ernie? Ernie, I want you focus on the here and now.
Repeat your instructions. Step by step.
I take Denise up to Dead Dog Farm, introduce her to
Renault as a big-time buyer from Seattle. I lead
Renault through the buy. Complete the transaction. And
get the hell out of the way.
Good. Harry? You'll take it from there.
Wish I could go in with you, but I've temporarily lost
my enforcement franchise.
#2.013
I've been giving that some thought.
Truman reveals a Twin Peaks DEPUTY'S BADGE, hands it toward him.
Consider yourself deputized. The Bureau's loss is my
gain.
Thank you, Harry. I hope I can live up to it.
I'm done. Might want to towel him off before we go.
Just how long will it take you to storm the farmhouse? I
mean from the time I complete the buy? Maybe I
should be wearing a vest. Can I ask a question?
Sure, Ernie.
Don't make me do this. Please. I'm not the man you
think I am. I'm a coward. Really. This isn't my line of
work, I -
I'm fine. Sorry. A momentary lapse. Count on me.
Where's Denise?
Just then: Denise, or rather Dennis, enters the room. She's reverted back to male dress for the
occasion, hair tied neatly back in a ponytail.
DENISE/DENNIS
Right here.
Somehow it seemed ... appropriate.
Cooper offers an unfazed thumbs up.
EXT. ORPHANAGE - DAY
A stately building among the pines.
#2.013
INT. ORPHANAGE OFFICE -DAY
An empty office. Two or three cluttered desks. A series of file cabinets. Suddenly, the
sound of heated whispers outside, shadows playing across the office door's opaque window.
TREMAYNE'S VOICE
We may have to pick the lock. Tricky business, that.
Just then: the door opens, REVEALING Tremayne and Andy on the other side. Andy has
simply turned the knob of the unlocked door.
Voila. We enter.
Where is everybody?
Lunch.
Here we are ... the case files.
Tremayne leafs through the cabinet, reading names as he goes.
Nails, Neaster, Neatherby, Needleman. Nicholas
Needleman. Our little Nicky.
We can read it in the car.
Patience, Andrew ... Hmm. The usual background
information. Birthplace, initial adoption.
Dick.
The first of several, it seems. A-ha, the plot thickens.
Where are thy secrets, Little Nicky?
DICK.
#2.013 Revised 11-7-100, BLUE
Tremayne turns to the door. He sees a KINDLY COUPLE, the pleasant-faced HUSBAND.
Tremayne panicks, slams the file back inside the cabinet, banging his finger in the process.
Hi. We're the Brunston's. I know we're a little early.
But we were just so damn eager to see him ...
Can we see him? Where is Donnie?
Speechless, Andy simply points at Tremayne. Tremayne faces the unexpected guests, replies:
Dead.
The husband pales, the wife gasps. Tremayne improvises further.
Dead tired, that is. I'm afraid Donnie isn't feeling up to
snuff.
But he was in perfect health, yesterday.
Dick.
Just one minute. Let me help these good people. Now
where were we..?
Tremayne looks up at the inquisitive couple a supplicating look on his face.
22A. INT. HURLEY BEDROOM - DAY
Norma sits on the side of the bed, adjusts her stockings. Ed sits behind her, legs about her hips.
Are you happy?
I love you, Norma. I'm hard pressed to think of
anything else that matters.
Norma smiles, kisses the arms that hold her. Suddenly: a KNOCK at the door. Both react.
#2.013 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
INT. HURLEY HOUSE - DAY
Ed opens the door, finds DONNA HAYWARD standing there.
I need your help, Ed.
What can I do for you?
I've been looking for James everywhere. He hasn't been
in school. No one's seen him at the Diner. I even went
to his house but I can't find him.
Donna. Listen to me. James is all right. He called.
Tell me.
James asked me to send him some money care of a bar
out on 96. We didn't talk long ...
That's all I know.
Donna peers at the envelope for a beat. An address written there.
Let me take it to him.
What about your folks?
I'll speak to them. They'll understand.
Ed's not so sure, but Donna doesn't hesitate. She gives Ed a kiss on the cheek, exits. Ed pauses,
turns back to the bedroom. Norma's standing in the doorway. Both listen to the sound of
Donna's car driving away.
I've got to get back.
I'll call.
Norma steps into his arms, they kiss.
#2.013 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
We've got a lot to talk about.
Norma exits. Ed pauses to watch her go. Then, at last, he closes the door, turns back to the
living room ... and finds Hank Jennings standing before him.
Oh, Ed. The things we do for love.
Hank SLAMS his fist into Ed's jaw. Ed topples over backward. Hank leaps upon him. He'll
beat him to death if he can. Just then: someone OPENS the front door. Norma returning?
No. It's Nadine, carrying a satchel of books. Thinking about Mike. Thinking about Ed.
Thinking about her parents in Europe.
Eddie? I'm home!
Nadine SEES Hank and Big Ed. One looming over the other.
Eddie?
Hank turns to Nadine, revealing Ed below him, face bloodied and battered. Nadine reacts in
a flash. She leaps forward, swings her book satchel like a scimitar, bashing Hank in the head.
Hank yowls in protest, tries to avoid. But Nadine is stronger and faster than his darkest
nightmare. And now she turns the full force of her anger upon him.
Nadine batters Hank through the living room, pile-driving into a coffee table, hurling
him through the knickknack shelf, and with one last great punch...sends him careening over the
sofa. A beat of stunned silence. Hank lies still. Nadine hurries to Big Ed's side.
Eddie? Can you hear me?
Nadine?
Nadine's here. Don't worry, baby. Nadine will take
care of everything.
FADE TO BLACK.
#2.013 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
EXT. GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL - DAY
Establish.
INT. BEN HORNE'S OFFICE - DAY
A victorious Ben Horne, still in military raiment, eyes the battleground before him. Bobby
Briggs looks on with a sinking feeling. His big break is turning to sand before his eyes.
Colonel Chamberlain and the 20th Maine were trapped
at the summit of Little Round Top. A third of his men
already fallen. His one chance, his only chance, was to
take the offensive; to move his left flank down the
hillside, like a swinging gate and take us by surprise.
Uh, Mr. Horne..?
But we were waiting for him. The 15th Alabama
attacked before the left flank was able to muster.
Chamberlain's desperate manuever ended in failure
Little Round Top was ours. From this vantage point, we
were able to roll back the Federal line, setting the stage
for Pickett's mighty charge. And victory.
Victory. Oh boy.
Bobby looks to the door, Audrey peeking inside. He shrugs. What can I do? Meanwhile, Ben
produces a sword from behind his desk, hands it to Bobby with great fanfare.
General Meade, you have suffered in ignoble defeat. I
accept your unconditional surrender.
Bobby doesn't know what the hell to do. Ben wants him to hand the sword back.
General Meade. I accept your unconditional surrender.
Okay. Tell you what, Mr. Horne, I gotta go check with
President Lincoln first, okay? So you wait right here,
#2.013 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
and we'll get back to you on this surrender thing - hey,
don't wanna keep the President waiting.
Bobby makes a hasty exit, holding the sword.
INT. GREAT NORTHERN CORRIDOR - DAY
Bobby exits from the office carrying the ceremonial sword, finds Audrey outside. They walk
down the corridor together.
Baby, I got good news and I got bad news. The bad
news is your old man just bought a condo in Flip City.
Ben is out to lunch. The good news is he's about to win
the Civil War.
I'll call Uncle Jerry. He'Il know what to do. And
Doctor Jacoby. Maybe he needs an injection. Bobby, I
don't care what it takes: we've got to get Ben Horne back
on his feet again.
Okay, baby. Whatever you say. Bobby's on the case.
That may work with Shelly. But not this girl. She deadpans:
Don't call me baby.
They turn the corner. Catherine Martell, who's overheard some of the exchange, steps around
the corner and heads for the office.
INT. BEN HORNE'S OFFICE - DAY
Ben sits on the couch, enjoys a victory cigar. Someone knocks at the office door.
Enter lively.
#2.013
The door opens ... Catherine Martell steps inside.
Hello, Ben.
Ben reacts. She's a walking reality check, tearing Ben from fantasy's comforting embrace.
Catherine.
Gettysburg?
Yes ...
Only you could conceive of winning the Civil War. For the South.
I have Washington in my sights.
You have the nuthouse in your future if you don't snap out
of it.
So you've come to gloat. Come to celebrate my
demise. Go ahead, then. Laugh. You've defeated me.
Left me for dead. As I have defeated General Meade.
There's something wistful in Ben's expression. A kind of vulnerability Catherine's never seen
before. Catherine looks at Ben for a beat. Then, a little wistful herself.
True. I did come here to gloat. You double-crossed me.
You tried to kill me. And I, for the very best of reasons,
intended to bury you so deeply that future generations
would someday unearth and exhibit your remains:
Slimey Rat Bastard Americanus: DO NOT FEED.
DO NOT TRUST.
#2.013 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
I'm not all that trustworthy, I suppose.
Far from it. And yet, despite all the things I know,
despite every reason you've given me to despise you ... I
find myself here with you ... wanting you.
You can't be serious ...
I want you, Ben. Horrifying as it seems. I can't escape
it. You ... make my body hum.
Ben looks at her, speechless. Catherine reaches for him.
Now kiss me, General Lee.
Catherine pushes Ben down upon the soft couch. Both sides engage.
EXT. MARSH GARAGE - DAY
Evelyn stands outside the garage, holding a bottle of champagne and two glasses. Eyes closed,
she waits; giddy, impatient.
Hurry up, "Jim." The champagne's getting warm.
JAMES' VOICE
Don't call me "Jim."
Suddenly: the ROAR of an engine from the garage. Evelyn opens her eyes. And James drives
into view behind the wheel of the gleaming Jaguar. Evelyn holds the champagne and glasses
into the air, triumphant. James pulls up beside her. He opens the passenger door, steps into
view. Presents the automobile with a grinning flourish.
Anyplace special you want to go?
Jeffrey'll be home by midnight. That doesn't give us a
lot of time.
#2.013 REVISED 11-7-90, BLUE
I'll take what we got.
Deal.
James and Evelyn meet at the front of the Jaguar. The engine running. Evelyn pours two
glasses, hands one to James. They touch glasses. Evelyn proposes a toast.
To handsome strangers and rebuilt engines.
James downs his glass with a flourish. Evelyn grins, does the same.
I never thought I'd see it ride again. You're a miracle-
worker.
It was nothing. Honest.
You're too modest.
I don't want to brag.
Oh, go ahead. You deserve it. You're strong and you're
kind. You have a wonderfully honest face, James. Don't
laugh, it's quite rare. Every time I look at you, I can tell
exactly what you're thinking.
Guess I ought to be careful about what I'm thinking.
Don't be careful. Not on my account.
Evelyn pours herself another glass, hands the bottle to James.
What are your plans?
#2.013 Revised 11-8-90, PINK
I haven't thought about it.
Where will you go?
I don't know.
Don't.
What?
I don't want you to leave. Give me time, James. I'll
think of a hundred reasons for you to stay.
Evelyn kisses him. Their passion increases. James begins to remove her blouse. Evelyn reaches
for his belt. James eases her down upon on the Jaguar hood, the engine still running hot beneath
them. Evelyn smiles, giddy, she whispers:
It 's warm.
HOLD ON James and Evelyn for a beat. ANOTHER ANGLE reveals Malcolm watching
from the garage. And he's smiling.
EXT. DEAD DOG FARM - DAY
Establish. Cars gathered in front. Shapes moving past dirty windows. A screen door banging
about in the wind. The drug buy in progress. As SEEN through a pair of binoculars.
EXT. DEAD DOG FARM BLUFF - DAY
Deputy Hawk sits in a police cruiser, wearing a headset, manning the radio and taping controls.
Sheriff Truman and Agent Cooper recline atop a small bluff, peer through binoculars at Dead
Dog Farm. Both wear portable earpieces. INTERCUT their POV as they watch and listen
to the action below.
#2.013 Revised 11-8-90, PINK
ERNIE'S VOICE
You sure you don't want to wait for Hank? He told me
this morning how much he wanted to be in on everything.
I feel pretty strongly we should wait a couple more -
RENAULT'S VOICE
We'll start without him.
ERNIE'S VOICE
Whatever you say. Dennis ... ?
DENNIS'S VOICE
May I?
RENAULT'S VOICE
You're sweating awful bad, Professor. Something wrong?
ERNIE'S VOICE
Me? Sweating? Hyperhidrosis. It's a childhood
condition. I was living in Guam at the time, contracted
yellow fever. The. aftereffects are vicious, as you can
imagine, heavy sweating's one of the socially
inconvenient -
DENNIS'S VOICE
Everything's in order. I've got a plane to catch, so if we
can finish up...
KING'S VOICE
Sit down, Ernie. Take a deep breath.
RENAULT'S VOICE
A man needs to learn the art of relaxation. Life is a
precious commodity. Why waste it running headlong
into the future? Pause. Enjoy each moment as it passes.
Treadmills are for lab rats.
ERNIE'S VOICE
I don't sweat like this all the time. I was in Korea, we
were just a bunch of fresh-faced kids ...
Suddenly: a crackling BUZZ, static emanating from the wire. Ernie's sweat has caused a short.
Chaos follows, sounds of panic, footsteps shuffling, Ernie's muffled pleas.
#2.013
They're in trouble.
Suddenly: the wire goes dead. Not a sound to be heard. Truman reaches for his headset, as if
to adjust. Hawk runs into view.
The wire's dead.
Cooper turns back to his binoculars, gazes at the farmhouse below.
Nothing at first. Perhaps some tumult glimpsed through a window. Then, suddenly, the front
door bursts open - it's Jean Renault, pushing Dennis Bryson into view, holding him tight,
pressing a gun into his ear. As hostage. Renault bellows:
COOPER!!!
FADE TO BLACK.
#2.013 Revised 11-8-90, PINK
EXT. DEAD DOG FARM - DAY
Renault presses the gun hard against Bryson's ear. He yells a second time.
COOPER!!
Cooper and Truman exchange a look. A beat. And Cooper steps forward, out of hiding.
Coop!
He came for me, Harry.
Cooper steps from the bluff toward Jean Renault. Truman turns to Hawk.
Get Capability on the radio. I want backup.
State police?
The Bookhouse Boys.
Hawk races back to the cruiser. Below, Cooper nears the farmhouse and Renault.
I want safe passage to the border.
I'm not authorized to deal.
Then bring me someone who is.
First, release your hostages.
Why?
We will kill you if you don't.
Then everybody dies.
#2.013
That is unacceptable.
We are at cross-purposes, Agent Cooper.
No. We will trade.
Trade?
Your hostages. Ernie Niles and Agent Bryson. For me.
Renault figures. It's what he wanted after all. Finally ... Renault smiles, nods assent.
Agreed.
Hands in the air, Agent Cooper. Come to me.
Cooper raises his hands, takes lonely steps toward Jean Renault, the farmhouse. Renault
releases Bryson. Shoves Ernie Niles after.
INT. MARSH GARAGE APARTMENT - NIGHT
A dark bedroom. Moonlight pours through an open window, finds James sleeping. Evelyn
Marsh at his side. Evelyn slips quietly out of bed, naked, dresses in the shadows. CAMERA
FOLLOWS Evelyn as she exits from the bedroom, steps quietly down a flight of stairs.
CAMERA REVEALS Malcom standing below, waiting for her. Evelyn smiles sleepily
Malcom returns a grin.
How's our baby boy?
Sound asleep. Dreaming of love.
Lucky, lucky, lucky.
Malcom opens his arms. Evelyn eases into them. They exchange a deep and lasting kiss.
HOLD ON Malcom and Evelyn for a beat. Embracing in the dark.
#2.013
EXT. DEAD DOG FARM - NIGHT
The farmhouse illuminated by police jeep headlights. Truman, Hawk, other deputies on the
perimeter. All eyes on the silent farmhouse.
INT. DEAD DOG FARM - NIGHT
Cooper and Renault sit opposite each other inside. Renault keeps his pistol trained on Cooper.
Preston King paces about, nervous, he peers out a window.
More deputies. Sharpshooters. Let's deal. Or let's run.
King is starting to panic. But not Renault. He remains calm, quietly philosophical.
Will they let us run, Agent Cooper?
No.
Will they deal?
I doubt it.
What do you suggest we do?
Surrender.
I agree.
Are you crazy?
There is only one thing left to decide. To surrender
quietly. Or to kill you first.
Then you will die.
#2.013 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
I know.
Is my death so important?
My brothers are dead. I hold you responsible.
I met Bernard once. As for Jacques, I arrested him,
nothing more.
But I blame you, Agent Cooper.
Why?
Before you came here, Twin Peaks was a simple place.
My brothers sold drugs to truck-drivers and teenagers.
One-Eyed Jack's welcomed curious tourists and
businessmen. Quiet people lived quiet lives. Then a
pretty girl dies. And you arrive. Everything changes.
My brother Bernard is shot and left to die in the woods.
A grieving father smothers my surviving brother with a
pillow. Arson, kidnapping. More death and
destruction. Suddenly the quiet people here are no
longer quiet. Their simple dreams have become a
nightmare.
(shifts his grip on the pistol, as if he now meant
to shoot a hole in Cooper's chest)
What's one more death, after all? Maybe yours will be
the last. Maybe you brought the nightmare with you.
Renault is toying with Cooper, spinning words into ideas. But there is something eerily
accurate about his playful philosophizing. King is unimpressed.
I don't know what the hell you think you're talkin' about.
But I do know that we have a goddam problem and if
you don't want to solve it. I will -
(stops at the window, stares outside. Open-
mouthed)
Jean? You want to take a look at this?
Renault gets up, steps to the window. Keeping an eye on Cooper all the while. He joins King,
peers outside.
#2.013 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
Improbably, impossibly, a WAITRESS from the Double R Diner sashays toward the
farmhouse, holding a tray aloft into the night air. It's a surreal image, the waitress caught in
the glaring jeep lights, stepping closer, steam rising off the food above her.
You order food?
King draws his gun as if to fire. But Renault stops him.
Let her come.
Cooper follows their exchange intently, looks toward the door. A beat. And someone knocks
three times. Renault steps to open it. Standing in the doorway, tray held aloft, is Dennis - or
rather Denise Bryson, in full Double R regalia.
Suppertime.
Several things happen simultaneously; Jean looks closer at the waitress, dimly recognizes the
face. Denise lets the tray drop down to her waist, revealing a gun upon it. In one smooth
motion she hurls the pistol toward Cooper, even as he leaps forward out of his chair. Jean turns
to fire at Cooper. Denise drops Preston King with a right cross to the jaw.
Cooper shoots Renault through the heart. Sheriff Truman and Deputy Hawk pour inside, guns
ready. Both spot Renault dead on the floor. Denise cuffing Preston King. They lower their
weapons. A beat, then:
Quick thinking, Denise.
Don't thank me. Thank Sheriff Truman. It was his idea.
Cooper turns to Harry. Surprised, proud. He smiles.
Harry S. Truman.
I improvised.
HOLD ON them for a beat.
#2.013 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
INT. LEO JOHNSON'S HOUSE - NIGHT
Shelly sleeps curled up on the living room sofa. Still waiting for Bobby to come home. A
record plays on a stereo turntable nearby. Something soft and sweet. Then, suddenly, the
house lights FLICKER, the record begins to slow. The sweet tune distorts eerily. Shelly
wakes with a start.
Bobby?
The lights FLICKER with greater intensity, now blacking out for seconds at a time. Shelly
slips off the sofa, steps toward the kitchen. Now afraid.
Bobby, is that you? This isn't funny.
Shelly comes upon Leo's bed revealed in the flickering light. She gasps. The bed is empty.
Bobby?
Shelly pivots, looks toward Leo's wheelchair. The wheelchair is empty.
Bobby!!
Shelly whirls about, hysterical. That's when she SEES him. Leo Johnson standing across the
room, swathed in shadow and light. Shelly SCREAMS. And the lights cease their flickering,
the house is plunged into absolute darkness.
INT. SHERIFF TRUMAN'S OFFICE - NIGHT
OPEN ON the station interior. Pitch black, no lights anywhere. A beat. And LUCY
MORAN leads Cooper, Truman, and Hawk inside. Truman holds a flashlight toward the
dark, pauses to listen to Lucy. Cooper continues ahead.
The voice on the phone said there was a bomb planted in
the woods but it didn't say which woods and then all of a
sudden there was this big BANG and the lights went out
and I couldn't find a candle so I called the fire
department.
#2.013 Revised 11-12-90, YELLOW
Was there a fire?
Two of them. First there was one at the power station.
But most of the volunteer fire department was playing
bingo so it took a while to get everybody together.
Then there was the bang I told you about. It sounded
like it was right upstairs so we all got out of here.
Well, it turned out to be the transformer on the pole
right above and behind the building but we had to wait
to go back inside because the transformer was shooting
sparks everywhere and we were afraid it would start the
station on fire, too. But it didn't.
Do they know what started it, Lucy?
"Suspicious in nature," that's what Chief Kipple said. He was suffering
from smoke inhalation at the time so he sounded a little hoarse -
Suddenly Cooper's voice is heard in the dark.
COOPER'S VOICE
Harry!
Truman looks up, notices that Cooper and Hawk have proceeded ahead.
Yeah, Coop?
COOPER'S VOICE
You'd better take a look at this.
Stay here.
Truman steps toward Cooper's voice. CAMERA FOLLOWS Truman, the flashlight's beam,
as he enters the office.
Cooper?
Truman stops still. The flashlight's beam tracks across the office floor, REVEALS Cooper and
Hawk standing by Harry's desk, eyes turned toward his chair. Truman shifts, aims the flashlight
to follow their gaze ...
... and reveals a horrifying tableau. A DEAD MAN seated in the chair, eyes frozen wide in an
agonizing stare, mouth taped shut as if to silence screams. Before him, arrayed atop the desk, a
chess board. The dead man's hand has been set upon a knight, as if to make his next move.
#2.013 Revised 11-7-90, BLUE
My God. Who is it?
I don't know.
But why?
It's a game of chess, Harry. This is Windom Earle's next
move.
HOLD ON Cooper for a beat.
FADE TO BLACK.