TWIN PEAKS #27
by
Harley Peyton
&
Robert Engels
Scanned by runningdog.
Original formatting duplicated as closely as possible. For
clarification all duplicate pages removed. Special note: this is a
faithful duplication that includes the original spelling, formatting and
series related errors.
First Draft: January 30 ,1991
Revised/General Distribution: February 5, 1991
Revised Scene #'s: February 5, 1991 - Blue
Revised: February 8, 1991 - Pink
Revised: February 11, 1991 - Green
Revised: February 11, 1991 - Yellow
Revised: February 15, 1991 - Cherry
Revised: March 12, 1991 - Goldenrod - Reshoot of Sc. #8
Lynch/Frost Productions, Inc.
7700 Balboa Boulevard
Van Nuys, CA 91406
(818) 909-7900
#2.020 1.
INT. DINER - DAY
Bobby and Shelly sit in a diner booth. Shelly holds a crumpled copy of her pageant speech.
"...and that's the only way we're ever going to save the
trees. It's time to stand up and kick some butt for our
environment. Before it's too late for all of us."
That's beautiful, baby. Letter perfect.
I'm not so sure about the "kicking butt" part. How 'bout
"Fight"?
"It's time to stand up and fight for our environment?"
Hundred per cent better.
Shel ... I been thinkin'...
I know, I know. The speech counts double everything else
in the contest -
I been thinking about us.
You were?
I know I haven't been paying the right kind of attention to
you lately. I got busy with Mr. Horne, I'm wearing suits,
okay? And suddenly I'm walkin' around like I'm more
important than everybody else.
You were pretty crummy. I was lonely, Bobby. I missed
all the things we used to do together.
When I saw you kissin' that guy, something snapped. It's
#2.020
like my brain rolled over. And I could see all the stuff
that's special to me. The stuff that matters.
I love you, Shelly. I want to dedicate my time to that I
mean if that's okay with you.
A beat. Shelly smiles, leans closer.
What do you think?
She leans across the table to give him a long, passionate kiss. Finally:
Lucky, lucky me.
Suddenly: an OFF-SCREEN VOICE interrupts:
Shelly! Phone. It's the Sheriffs office.
Shelly reacts, steps from the booth to answer.
#2.020
What do you know about saving our planet?
I know it's in lots of trouble.
Lucy hands him a Miss Twin Peaks flyer.
Andy, I'm taking fate into my own hands mostly
because the suspense is killing me. Tomorrow is D-Day.
"Dad Day." In twenty-four hours I will choose the father
of my child. Deputy Andrew Brennen. Or Clothing
Salesmen Richard Tremayne.
What does that have to do with the Miss Twin Peaks
contest?
I -
We could use the money. We could also use a father.
So I have to give a speech about saving our planet which
is a great concept but I have no idea how to go about
doing it. Yet.
I do know that people have got to stop sinking their beer
cans in Pearl Lake when they're fishing.
Beer cans...
And styrofoam never dies for as long as you live.
Lucy and Andy huddle together, consider man's fate.
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY
The conference room transformed into a command center. The blinds are pulled, it's hard to
#2.020
tell if it is day or night. At one end is the blackboard with a drawing of the cave painting. A
MOVE down the table reveals computers, more paraphanalia. Piles of charts, library books,
plus attempts to duplicate the dowels that shot out of the cave wall.
MAJOR BRIGGS, who looks like he's been up all night, guides Bookhouse Boy CAPPY
through a reference book while pointing at the drawing.
See if any of these symbols have to do with harvest
schedules or ancient calendars. Look for any curious
nomenclature.
Got it, Chief.
Cappy gets to work. Cooper and Truman enter, exchange greetings.
Garland, you're exhausted.
Briggs gestures toward a small box atop his desk filled with files, notebooks, a videotape.
I spent the night obtaining and perusing the Project Blue
Book files regarding Windom Earle. I found it
impossible to sleep after.
What did you learn?
Windom Earle was the best and brightest among us. But
when our attention turned from outer space to the
wooded areas surrounding Twin Peaks, he became
destructively obsessive. Earle acted in an overzealous
and secretive manner. Possessive of his assignments.
And finally, violent. He was removed from the project.
Briggs reaches into the box, removes the video tape, inserts it into a VCR.
I found this in the Project archives.
Briggs turns on recorder and monitor. A beat. GRAINY BLACK AND WHITE footage
appears on the screen. Slightly out of focus, as if gleaned from a surveillance camera.
WINDOM EARLE, younger, wearing a white lab coat, faces an unseen interrogater. He
speaks with quiet contempt:
#2.020
... these evil sorcerers, dugpas, they call them, cultivate
evil for the sake of evil and nothing else. They express
themselves in darkness for darkness, without leavening
motive. This ardent purity has allowed them to access a
secret place of great power, where the cultivation of evil
proceeds in exponential fashion. And with it, the
furtherance of evil's resulting power. These are not fairy
tales, or myths. This place of power is tangible, and as
such, can be found, entered, and perhaps, utilized in some
fashion. The dugpas have many names for it, but chief
among them is the Black Lodge.
But you don't believe me, do you? You think I'm mad.
Overworked. Go away.
Earle turns from the unseen camera. The screen goes BLACK. Cooper presses rewind, means
to view the tape in its entirety. We SEE Earle's, in black and white, image in reverse. Cooper
speaks OVER, shares his thought as he forms them.
When Windom Earle returned, I assumed he had come
for vengeance. For me. But I miscalculated. Windom
has insinuated himself into the lives of those I care for.
He has murdered innocents. He has engaged us in
subterfuge and red herring. But those acts were merely
camouflage. Windom Earle is after something else.
The Black Lodge.
What I want to know is, what does that, the Black
Lodge, have to do...
...with this?
You think there's a connection?
Windom does.
Harry, let's divide up Earle's files, check them top to
bottom. Cappy, find out everything you can about the
evil sorcerers known as dugpas. Garland, maybe you
should get some sleep.
I could use a good stretch. Perhaps a walk in the woods
to clear my head.
#2.020 Revised 2-8-91, PINK
Fine. Harry?
Cooper and Truman divide the files. CAMERA MOVES IN on a plant nearby. It's the
familiar bonsai ... and the electronic bug hidden within.
INT. EARLE'S CABIN
WINDOM EARLE, earphone in place, listens and laughs. LEO JOHNSON stands next to
him.
You know, Leo, the only thing Columbus discovered was
that he was lost. Cooper and the gang aren't even off the
snide, yet.
I know something they don't know.
I know something Young Dale merely suspects.
MOVE BACK to see Earle has set up his own war room/command module. Bur Earle's work
seems more advanced and he has more equipment. The familiar chess board remains.
Project Blue Book. Little men - pee wits loaded with
optimism. They were a deterrent so slight it was
practically encouragement.
Earle refers to his copy of the hieroglyph, means to transfer the image to his computer screen.
Yet, I would like to ask Major Briggs a question or
three. Polish up that bald nub of his and see what shines.
Perhaps, Leo, we too should venture out for a good
stretch.
Earle brings the copy closer, compares it with his computer mockup. The chess board is in the
way. Earle sweeps it off the table. He is too absorbed in his work to notice Leo take the
CONTROL for the shock collar off the table and slide it into his pocket.
INT. HAYWARD HOUSE, ATTIC - DAY
DONNA HAYWARD sits on the floor of the attic. Frustrated. She has been through a lot of
boxes, tins, and trunks and not found a thing. She pulls down another box and behind it spots a
SCRAPBOOK Across it's cover it reads, "The Palavan Club." As she pulls the scrapbook
#2.020 Revised 2-8-91, PINK
down documents fall out of it. Picking them up she sees that they are BEARER BONDS for
HORNE INDUSTRIES. Mixed in with those is an envelope. Inside the envelope is a
BIRTH CERTIFICATE that reads:
"Female Child. Mother, Eileen Hayward. Daughter
Donna Marie."
The name of the father has been left blank. Donna opens the scrapbook. She pores through the
pictures coming upon a photograph of her parents at a costume party, dressed as hoboes. The
theme of the party is written on an arch in the picture. It says, "Better Days." Donna whips
through more of the pictures till she comes upon one that stops her. Eileen and Doc smile out
at her from some long ago party. In between them is a smiling Ben Horne, his arms about Doc
and Eileen.. Then there is a photo of Ben and Eileen together. Ben grinning at the camera.
Eileen grinning at Ben. Donna stares at the picture until she is startled by her Mother's voice
from below.
EILEEN'S VOICE
Donna? Donna where are you?
Donna scrambles to put the bonds and the birth certificate back into the scrapbook.
What is it, Mom?
EILEEN'S VOICE
Deputy Hawk is on the phone.
Be right there.
After one more look Donna hides the scrapbook.
5A. INT. GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL LOBBY - DAY
JOHN JUSTICE WHEELER stops at the desk. The clerk looks up from his work.
Has Audrey Horne returned?
No sir.
And no messages from her?
#2.020 Revised 2-8-91, PINK
7A.
5A. CONTINUED:
No, sir.
You're sure?
Sorry, sir.
Nothing left to do. Wheeler sighs.
Would you send someone up for my bags.
Perhaps you care to leave Ms. Horne a message.
Wheeler takes a pad from the clerk. Starts to write a note. Then crumples it up.
No. No. I'm afraid that isn't going to - Thanks.
Wheeler goes to the elevator.
#2.020
INT. EARLE'S CABIN - DAY
Earle applies oil to his cross-bow, chatting with Leo, as is his custom, while he works.
... you would have appreciated the dugpas, Leo. Ancient
sorcerers bent on evil. Rather like the Kali worshippers
of India. Another fine bunch of zanies, let me tell you.
Blood for breakfast, blood for lunch ... those were the
good old days.
Earle looks up, sees Leo standing before the three playing card Queens attached to the bulletin
board. Audrey, Donna, and Shelly. Leo turns to Earle, disturbed, confused.
Do my anecdotes bore you?
Sh...sh ... Shelly.
Yes. Very good, Leo. You remember.
Sh ... Shelly.
Tawdry little trollop. Just between you and me, old
boy, your wife has some fairly modern views on marital
fidelity. No matter, she is still fit for a Queen. Would
you mourn her passing, Leo? I doubt it.
Leo stares at the picture of Shelly, then back to Earle. Uncertain, confused. Earle clarifies:
Her death, Leo. Shelly's imminent demise. It's really
very simple. Shelly wins Miss Twin Peaks. Shelly
dies. Maybe you'd like to help.
Shelly. NO.
Leo understands. He means to save her. Leo reveals the shock collar control, waves it at Earle
is if the control, not the collar, delivered the painful shocks. Earle spies it, reacts with mock fear.
My god, what do you have there, Leo?
No. Dear God, no.
#2.020
I'm begging you, Leo. I prithee, no. Have mercy.
Leo points the control at Earle.
Love .... Shelly ....
Leo hits the control and shocks himself. He flips about, confused. Earle moves to Leo.
Confused and frightened, Leo continues to pump on the control and continues to shock himself.
Finally, Earle takes the control from his helpless hand.
Poor, Leo. We are all love's fools, more or less.
Earle takes out a pair of shackles, attaches them to Leo's legs.
But you will learn, as I have, the value of hate. It makes
for better company I assure you.
#2.020
INT. DOUBLER DINER - DAY
ANNIE BLACKBURNE cleans the counter, crumples up one of the ubiquitous Miss Twin
Peaks flyers. She looks up to see Cooper.
Can't hurt to give it a shot.
Maybe next year.
There's a whole new world out there, Annie. jump in.
"Hear the other side. See the other side."
St. Augustine. Coffee?
You bet.
Annie pours, takes a closer look. Faint doubt amidst his ardor.
Something's troubling you.
Yes.
Do you want to talk about it?
I am involved in a complicated investigation that
requires my total attention. Yet I spend most of my
time thinking about you.
I know the feeling. I've been seeing your face in fried
eggs all morning.
#2.020
There are those who believe in a scientific basis for
attraction. It's chemical.
Is that what this is?
I don't know. Is it possible to understand without
perspective?
I spent five years trying.
Faith.
It's difficult for me. But I have faith in you. In us, as I
understand it.
We are very much alike.
It helps.
But we think too much.
"What we observe is not nature itself, but nature exposed
to our method of questioning."
Heisenberg.
They share a warm beat. Kindred spirits from another time and place. Annie deadpans:
Maybe we should go bowling.
No. Dancing.
I don't know how.
#2.020
I'll teach you.
When?
Tonight.
Cooper takes her hand. They hesitate. Then, awkwardly, eagerly, they lean across the
countertop to kiss.
INT. ROADHOUSE - DAY
Decorations for the Miss Twin Peaks contest are being put up. A poster celebrating Norma as
a past Queen is leaning against the podium. SHELLY JOHNSON and BOBBY BRIGGS
rehearse on stage.
Shel, I know I haven't been paying the right kind of
attention to ya lately But when I saw that old guy
kissing you ... something snapped. It's when I realized what
I had or something. And I want to dedicate my time to
that.
Sounds great to me.
So let's try to get through the rest. And then we can
discuss it. Together.
Shelly peeks at her speech, sighs, and continues her recitation:
"Yes, I believe there are so many beautiful things in the
world that should be admired and be thankful for. For
example, Detroit auto makers reported a record year of
sales for sports cars."
I don't know, Bobby.
What's wrong now?
#2.020
Well, for one thing, nowhere in this entire speech do we
mention ecology, or forests, or anything.
Bobby looks at the speech.
I don't know where I'd put it. The speech is so damn
tight as is.
But it's supposed to be about that.
Shel, you're gonna be wonderful. You'll win in a walk.
And then we are off. Fade out on Twin Peaks. Fade up
on Hollywood insider games. Sunset strip. Easy
street, baby. Just like you always wanted.
Maybe a new hairdo. Or some signature makeup. We
got to mesmerize.
Shelly sighs. Apology or not. He's hopeless.
LANA BUDDING stares nervously at her fellow contestants. MAYOR MILFORD hurries
into view, sits beside her.
I've got great news. It's going to be Norma Jennings and
Richard Tremayne. Tremayne is the third judge. It's in
the bag.
I have to be sure. I want to be sure that I'm going to win.
My god, the guy's British - or Bahamian. He's bound to
fall for your charms.
We'll find a chance for you two to be alone. Wear one of
those dresses of yours with the slit cut half way up to
Seattle.
Nestle up to him real close and when he gets a look at
those gams of yours and smells that French perfume
dripping off you and begins to drown in those brown
#2.020 Revised 2-11-91, GREEN
eyes and -
Oh, god, stop it. Oh, you vixen, stop it. I can't take it
anymore, why can't we elope and -
Not till I've won. Then and only then will I marry you.
You're so strict, darling,
And I am the g.d. Mayor!
It's no use. Lana will not be dissuaded. Milford takes head in hands.
INT. GREAT NORTHERN - DAY
DOC HAYWARD finishes giving BEN HORNE a physical. Doc is purring his stethoscope
away and Ben is buttoning up his shirt. Both are tense.
The insurance company's sent me so many forms I could
get a heart attack lifting them.
You're fine. It's what in your heart that you should
worry about.
I know you have reason to doubt me. But I am only
interested in doing the right thing. For the good of
everybody.
Doc takes a long look at Ben. He believes him.
Then stay away from Eileen.
I can't. Not as long as the lie survives.
Dammit, Ben. It isn't that simple. I believe you. I
applaud your desire to do the right thing. But goodness
in you is like a timebomb. And there's nothing good
about ruined lives.
#2.020
It is a confusing and difficult process. But I must
continue. I'm sorry, Will.
Wheeler sticks his head in the door as he knocks.
Jack! Come in. You know Will Hayward.
Wheeler is obviously upset. For the first time unsure. He tries to be polite.
I met your daughter the other day. Beautiful girl.
I think I should get back to the office. Nice to see you,
John. Ben, be careful please.
Doc goes out. Ben motions to the chair in front of the desk but Wheeler is in too much of a
hurry.
Ben, I've been trying to find Audrey.
She should be back any minute.
I've got to go, Ben. They're gassing up the jet as we
speak.
Well, give her a call when you get to wherever it is you're
in such a hurry to get to.
Ben, a friend of mine, well, more than a friend, a partner,
was murdered last night.
Ben reacts with evident concern. Wheeler takes a chair and tries to relax.
#2.020
INT. GREAT NORTHERN LOBBY - DAY
Audrey moves through the lobby, tired but excited from her trip to Seattle. The clerk behind
the desk sees Audrey.
Ms. Horne. I have several messages...
Just then: Deputy Hawk appears, intercepts.
Audrey. Agent Cooper would like to see you at the
Sheriff's station.
Oh. Well, I have a lot of work to do, but maybe this
afternoon
Now. It's important.
Audrey pauses to wonder. Then walks with Deputy Hawk toward the door.
INT. BEN HORNE'S OFFICE - DAY
Wheeler explains his problem. Ben is panicked. Both seated on the office steps.
Ben, I have to leave.
Of course, of course.
But what about Stop Ghostwood? How do I get a hold
of you? I need more time.
A brave man is dead. My friend. And now I have to
take his place.
You're not coming back. Damn this rain forest business
anyway. Why can't you...? Sorry, sorry. See? I'm
already backsliding.
You'll be fine without me.
#2.020
I don't know. I feel disarmed. I'm afraid that I'm weak.
Ben Horne? Weak? I find that very hard to believe.
Strive for goodness. Tell the hardest truth first.
Do the best you can. That's all any of us can do.
Ben sighs, offers his hand. They shake and then hug. Then get to their feet.
Goodbye, John. I'm sorry Audrey wasn't here.
Giver her this. Tell her I...
Good luck. Come home soon.
Ben watches Wheeler walk out the door.
EXT. WOODS - DAY
Briggs walks through the woods, dog tired but enjoying the solitude and nature. He stops to
inspect a particularly beautiful Douglas Fir. He runs his hands up and down the bark trying to
remember something. He fingers the tattoo behind his head. From behind him he hears
singing. He turns to see a COSTUME HORSE strolling down the path towards him. He
stares at it, stunned. The horse stops singing. Looks it Briggs.
Hello, Wilbur.
A hand comes out from under the costume and a dart/tranquilizer whizzes out hitting Briggs
who wobbles away from the horse. He makes it about ten feet then topples over. The horse
stands over the downed pilot. Briggs desperately tries to focus on the horse head as it bends
over him.
What... what?
#2.020
Earle takes off the horse head.
Long time no see, Briggsie.
He turns to Leo who stumbles about in the ass end of the costume.
Leo, I think you have finally found your calling.
INT. SHERIFF'S STATION, INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY
OPEN ON the three pieces of paper forming the poem. Cooper is placing them together.
Shelly, Audrey, and Donna sit across from him.
Each of you received a part of this poem. And each in a
curious manner. Along with an invitation.
We all went to the Roadhouse but nobody showed up.
In the past few days have any of you had contact with a
stranger? Someone that sticks out as peculiar or
charming or just plain puzzling.
Well, there was that weird guy that claimed he was a
friend of Dad's.
The same day I got my poem I got a ten dollar tip for a
cup of coffee. That was pretty peculiar.
And there was a funny old guy at the library. He asked
me to read it to him.
All three.
Take a closer look, Shelly. Does the handwriting seem familiar?
#2.020
It's Leo's.
Cooper steels himself against the enemy.
Listen carefully. I want you to check in with the Sheriff
two times each day. Nine in the morning. Nine at
night. Parents are to know your whereabouts at all times.
When you walk to school, when you drive to work, I
want you to make sure that you do not do so alone.
Please believe me when I tell you to be very careful.
You are in danger. We all are.
#2.020
EXT. BLUE PINE LODGE - DAY
Establish.
INT. BLUE PINE LODGE - DAY
START CLOSE on the mysterious black box, now open, sent to Catherine Martell.
CAMERA PANS, reveals the slightly smaller box found inside. Unlike the original, this
box has a finely filigreed lid, the twelve signs of the zodiac inscribed on its surface. A
HAND enters frame, pushes the zodiac signs. The filigreed squares give slightly, suggesting
that the correct combination will open it.
CATHERINE'S VOICE
His servant woman, what's her-name, Jones, delivered it
shortly after he died.
Eckhardt's last request. A clever jape, perhaps. Or
something of value..?
Try the hammer.
CATHERINE MARTELL and ANDREW PACKARD hover over the boxes. Catherine
ignores Andrew, presses the zodiac signs with increasing frustration.
Won't work. There's a secret to opening each box, and
this one...
... is about to drive me mad.
Catherine pauses, seems about to hurl it through the nearest window. She turns to her brother.
Tell me some good news, Andrew. Anything.
Our foreign investors are chomping at the bit, from Paris
to Beijing. You'll get your golf course, Catherine. Right
next to the Great Northern Hotel.
Ben's doing everything he can to stop us.
#2.020
He's too late. When the project was still in his
possession, Ben cleared every possible hurdle. Zoning,
impact statements. He was, and is, his own worst
enemy.
Andrew's focus shifts palpably to the mysterious box. He pushes the zodiac buttons, tries
different combinations.
As always. What...?
Nothing, dear. Just trying a few simple combinations
Let me.
Catherine tries to get at the second box, but Andrew will not give way. The mysterious gift
inspires a possessive mania in both.
One minute, Catherine. Eckhardt's birthday, my
birthday, I know, the date the gift arrived...
Give it to me.
Not again.
She withdraws a third black box, a little smaller than the last. Andrew doesn't hesitate:
I opened it.
Andrew snatches the third box. And, before Catherine can intercede, sets it upon the table,
grabs the hammer, and strikes it as hard as he can. The box splinters, opens. Catherine shoves
Andrew aside, reaches into it...
Oh, Andrew...
... And pulls out a fourth and final box. Small and slender, stainless steel. As mysterious as
the rest. Catherine and Andrew pause to gaze at it, wonder what secrets are harbored inside.
#2.020 Revised 2-8-91, PINK
INT. EARLE'S CABIN - DAY
The sun makes its way through the cabin's window.
EARLE'S VOICE
When did you first see the symbol in Owl Cave?
An ARROW flies through the air, sticks deep into a brightly colored target. And just inches
from Major Briggs, bound upon it. Windom Earle stands at a near distance, holds out his free
hand for another arrow. Leo, subdued by his recent beating, complies. But when Earle turns
back to Briggs, Leo's eyes follow him with newfound mental vigor. He's beginning to reclaim
his senses.
I am not at liberty to divulge that information.
Cheater.
Earle lets fly another arrow, pinning Briggs right trouser leg to the target. And, judging by
the spot of blood that appears, piercing some part of his flesh as well.
What does the cave painting mean?
I am not at liberty to divulge that information.
Damn, but I love the military mind!
Earle fires another arrow, this one strikes the target just inches from Briggs' ear.
What's the capital of North Carolina?
Raleigh.
Earle extracts an ampule of amber liquid from his jacket, then a syringe. He draws the liquid
into it.
#2.020
Major, I admire your fortitude. Had I the time and the
patience, we might continue this game indefinitely.
However...
Earle jabs the syringe into Briggs' chest with sudden violence.
...I have neither.
Catch.
Earle tosses the empty syringe at Leo. Leo dodges it. Earle turns back to Briggs. The drug
takes hold quickly. Briggs struggles deep within a narcotic haze. Earle whispers, he means to
test the drug's effect.
Your name, please.
Garland... Briggs.
Garland, what do you fear most in the world?
The possibility that love is not enough.
Garland, please. I shall weep. How much does your
wife weigh?
One hundred and fifteen pounds.
Good for her. Now, when did you first see the
hieroglyph in Owl Cave?
In...in dreams.
What kind of dream?
I went night-fishing with Agent Cooper. There was a
bright light, the guardian beyond it. I was taken, but my
mind...still I recognize the signs...
#2.020
What do the signs mean?
There is a time ... if Jupiter and Saturn meet ... they will
receive you...
A tremor ripples through Briggs. He begins to babble.
Taht mug uoy ekil si gnimoc kcab ni elyts... Taht mug
uoy ekil...
Oh, Garland. I was hoping for a lengthy conversation.
Leo. Put the Major to bed. I'm afraid his mind has
begun to wander.
Leo steps to the target, removes the ropes that bind Briggs to it. Earle pauses to remember the
last words he told him.
There is a time... if Jupiter and Saturn meet...
Earle ponders as he repeats with delight.
INT. HURLEY HOUSE - DAY
START ON a standing screen in the dark living room of the Hurley house. Slides projected
upon it. Just now: Nadine in wrestling garb, slamming some hapless opponent to the mat.
NADINE'S VOICE
...and this is me with last year's regional champion from
Yakima. He was cute. But a little slow. Next!
The slide changes. Nadine now appears atop a dazed opponent, a referee counts beside them,
about to slam his hand on the mat to signal "pin".
NADINE stands, peers proudly at the screen. MIKE, ED, and Norma are arrayed on the
couch behind her. All equally uncomfortable, but determined to play along. DR. JACOBY
runs the slide projector. Nadine continues, blissfully unaware:
#2.020
And this is me with Brock Farmington, Triple A
champion from Spokane. Unbeaten in eighty previous
matches, superior upper body strength, thighs like bridge
supports ...
I pinned him in a minute five. Next!
One last slide. Nadine with an armful of trophies.
And this is me with all the stuff I won.
Nadine turns to the couch, beams, curtsies. Ed leads the others in polite applause.
Congratulations, Nadine.
Way to go, babe!
Nadine leaps upon couch next to Mike, gives him a big kiss. She takes his hand, holds it
close to her breast. Jacoby turns on the lights, addresses the he resulting foursome.
Thank you, Nadine. You're probably wondering why
we're gathered here today. I have found that when a
couple contemplates divor -
- er, breaking up, it is sometimes. easier to talk about
our feelings in the company of others. Nadine, maybe
you would like to begin.
Okay. Uhm. I guess it all started when I noticed
Mike's buns in the hall at school.
And...how are you feeling now?
Well. A little guilty, I guess. I mean because I'm so
happy and I worry about Ed being sad.
Ed, are you sad?
#2.020
No.
Nadine. How does that make you feel?
It makes me feel like maybe it's time for us to get on
with our lives the best way we know how. And leave the
past behind us.
It's a startlingly clear-headed pronouncement. Nadine gives Mike's hand a brief, affirming
kiss. Jacoby nods approval. He turns to Ed, prods:
Ed? Do you have something you would like to tell
Nadine?
Nadine. Norma and I are planning to get married.
A beat. All regard Nadine. Wait for her reaction. Finally:
Really? That's wonderful, Eddie. 'Cause Mike and me
are getting married too.
That's news to Mike. Nadine squeezes his hand with superhuman strength. Mike's mouth opens
in a silent scream. Then he flat out HOWLS.
EXT. GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL - DAY
Establish.
INT. GREAT NORTHERN LOBBY - DAY
Audrey returns through the lobby. She's in a hurry, looking for Wheeler. She races past the
elevators, vanishes into a hallway. A beat. And the elevator doors OPEN, Wheeler emerges
carrying his suitcase. He looks about the lobby. No sign of Audrey. Wheeler sighs, and
carries his bag toward the door.
#2.020
INT. BEN HORNE'S OFFICE - DAY
Audrey steps into her father's office. Ben rises from his desk, hurries to greet her.
Audrey! Welcome home!
Ben takes Audrey into a warm embrace. But Audrey has other things on her mind.
I got back this morning. But Agent Cooper wanted to
see me, so -
Is anything wrong?
Some creep sent me a poem. Daddy, have you seen
Jack? I called his room but nobody answered.
While you were away, I had the most incredible
brainstorm.
What...?
The Stop Ghostwood movement needs a spokesperson,
someone with a highly visible profile to inspire our
community to action.
Daddy, where's Jack -?
You can do it, Audrey. As Miss Twin Peaks you can
become that spokesperson, you can use your public
platform as a forum for environmental debate, you,
Audrey, and only you, can take our message to the
people.
Ben. Where is John Justice Wheeler?!
#2.020
Oh. He's gone.
Gone?!
Yes. Tragic, isn't it? Some tragedy in Brazil demands
his immediate attention. He left you a letter, I have it
here somewhere...
When did he leave?
Just now. The airport.
Audrey snatches the letter from Ben hands, and races out the door.
Audrey! Audrey, about Miss Twin Peaks, darling, the
pageant is tomorrow!
Too late. Audrey's out the door.
INT. GREAT NORTHERN LOBBY - DAY
Audrey races through the lobby. She spies PETE MARTELL stepping toward the bar.
YOU!!
Pete Martell.
Do you have a car?
A truck. Runs like a dream.
Let's go.
#2.020
Audrey grabs Pete and drags him toward the door.
FADE TO BLACK.
#2.020 Revised 2-15-91, CHERRY
EXT. BLACK LAKE AIRPORT - DAY
Near sunset. A taxi sporting the sign "Tim and Tom's Taxidermy" and bearing a huge set of
antlers on its roof rolls up to the lone jet on the runway. A voice is heard inside the taxi:
Straight... hold... steady... stop.
The taxi jerks to a stop in front of the jet. A piece of luggage falls to the runway, followed by
Wheeler, who pulls himself to safety from the back seat where TIM PINKLE sits. His blind
brother, TOM, sits behind the wheel in the front seat. Wheeler stares at the blind man. Tim
explains his brother.
He loves to stuff, and he loves to drive. Otherwise he
sleeps.
Well, I am very glad to have the opportunity to be
thankful for arriving here.
The pleasure is half mine.
Remember, we'll stuff anything.
Right.
Tom shouts to Wheeler as he moves towards the jet.
Welcome to Twin Peaks.
The taxi pulls away under the direction of Tim's voice- "Right, easy, right again, straight."
INT. SHERIFF'S STATION CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY
The war room atmosphere pervades. Cappy poring over maps. A computer screen and
terminal. And Deputy Andy standing before the blackboard, peering intently at the
mysterious hieroglyph.
Cooper and Truman share cups of coffee. Cooper peers at Briggs' calculations, sheafs of paper
covered with figures and notations.
#2.020 Revised 2-15-91, CHERRY
30A.
The symbols suggest a time. That much is clear.
A time for what?
I'm not sure. At first I thought the hieroglyph was a
signpost. But what if it's an invitation instead?
Or both.
Exactly.
Where is the Major?
He should be back by now.
Andy, give Mrs. Briggs a call. See if the Major's home.
Truman turns back to Cooper, seees him looking off into the distance, preoccupied. The
Sheriff assumes the usual brainstorm, wonders:
What it is, Coop?
#2.020
I was thinking about Annie Blackburne.
I've never known your mind to wander.
It's strange. I've been feeling this way all day. I
proceed as usual, mind clear and focused. And then,
suddenly, out of nowhere, I see Annie's face, I hear her
voice. Naturally, I attempt to reorient myself, return to
the task at hand. But her image remains. Sometimes I
feel dizzy.
Looks to me like a man in love.
My symptoms suggest the onset of malaria. Yet I've
never felt better in my life.
Cooper looks at Truman, his sad expression. Love has torn him apart. And Cooper knows it.
Sorry. I sound foolish.
No you don't. You sound lucky.
HOLD ON Cooper for a beat. Lucky indeed.
EXT. BLACK LAKE AIRPORT - DAY
Sunset. An attendant kicks the wheel blocks from Wheeler's jet. Portable stairs fold upward,
closing Wheeler inside.
EXT. TRUCK IN MOTION - DAY
Audrey points ahead to the airstrip and jet.
There he is. Step on it!!
#2.020
Pete lets out a war whoop, they barrel forward.
EXT. BLACK LAKE AIRPORT - DAY
The truck careens onto the tarmac. The jet pauses. Audrey leaps out of the truck, runs to the
jet, shouts up at the cockpit.
HOLD IT RIGHT THERE!!
Jack Wheeler's face appears in the cockpit window, grinning from ear to ear. He vanishes.
Audrey races around to the exit door. It opens, the stairs unfold. Wheeler appears in the open
doorway.
I should have known a simple goodbye was out of the
question.
Audrey runs up the stairs into his arms. They kiss for a very long beat. Finally, Audrey looks
into his eyes. No quips, no flirtation, no barrier between. Just the simple truth.
I love you.
I love you too.
Do you have to leave?
Yes.
When will you come back?
I don't know.
I'm a virgin.
What?
#2.020
I want you to make love to me.
Here and now?
It's your jet.
Thank God for that.
Audrey and Wheeler locked in a loving embrace. Wheeler leads her inside.
Pete watches them with a happy tear in his eye.
EXT. THE ROADHOUSE - NIGHT
Establish.
INT. THE ROADHOUSE - NIGHT
Couples dance to a slow country waltz on the jukebox. A banner proclaims: MISS TWIN
PEAKS, OUR 20th ANNIVERSARY. Several contestants are visible throughout. A
stagehand sets up a microphone on the stage. Annie sits at the bar. She sips from a soda, looks
about. She's waiting for someone. Annie reacts, peers at the dance floor.
Cooper stands amidst the dancing couples. He gestures for Annie to join him there. Annie
demurs. But Cooper insists. He won't budge. Finally, Annie smiles, slides off the barstool,
and steps into the dancing crowd.
I'm not completely prepared for this.
Think of it as a walking embrace. Two people stepping
as one would step.
Annie slides into his arms. A perfect fit.
#2.020
So far so good.
Now follow me.
We'll follow each other.
Cooper and Annie take tentative steps about the dance floor.
Steady.
Two people stepping...as one would step.
You've got it.
Genetic memory. Mom and Dad danced the Lindy.
Cooper and Annie find a gentle dancing rhythm, their bodies close together. A beat.
I like the way your body feels against my body.
I was thinking the same thing.
If I'm too forward...
Annie surprises him with a kiss. They settle more deeply into each other's arms. Then, quietly:
I want more than your kisses.
For instance?
I...
Suddenly: the music STOPS, a voice intrudes, shattering the spell.
#2.020
MILFORD'S VOICE
Hello? Is this on...?
Mayor Milford stands on the Roadhouse stage, taps at the microphone. All turn to face him.
Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to our
final night of festivities celebrating the Miss Twin Peaks
pageant. As many of you already know...
The microphone SQUEALS, a little puff of smoke drifts past the Mayor's nose. He looks
about, addled, taps at the mike again.
Damnation. Is this on...? Hello...?
The microphone is dead. A STAGEHAND scuttles into view, attempts to replace it.
Meanwhile, Annie quietly confesses, eyes straight ahead:
What I mean is, I understand why you treat me with
care. Why you hesitate. The convent evokes images of
helpless women fearful at the thought of emotions other
than those derived from scripture and prayer.
But when you hold me, when we kiss, I feel safe and
eager. I'm not afraid. Not of anything you make me
feel. Or want.
Cooper turns to her. They kiss for a long beat. Once again, Milford intrudes:
MILFORD'S VOICE
It's on? About time. Hello...? Welcome to our final
night of festivities celebrating the Miss Twin Peaks
pageant.
Oh, hell. Where're my cue cards?
Hello? Welcome to our final night...
I'm beginning to tire of his interruptions.
I don't know. He's cute.
I think I'll enter after all.
#2.020 Revised 2-11-91, GREEN
The Miss Twin Peaks contest?
Why not? Local girl returns to strive for her crown. It's
like a fairy tale.
And you, its Queen.
Cooper and Annie embrace in the middle of the dance floor. Slow motion FX. Cooper looks
over Annie's shoulder, reacts. Music up. The GIANT steps slowly between dancing couples,
arms spread, as if to welcome or warn. Cooper's circling steps take him in and out of view.
Cooper pauses, tries to focus. The Giant cannot reach him. Not this time. And then, as
quickly as he appeared...the Giant vanishes.
EXT. BLACK LAKE AIRPORT - NIGHT
Wheeler's jet speeds down the runway, glides off into the night.
Audrey and Pete watch it fly, illuminated by truck headlights behind them. Audrey's crying.
Pete's crying too.
What a gyp. I finally meet the man of my dreams and
the next thing you know he's flying to Brazil.
He'll be back some day. He promised.
Sure. He promised to take me fishing and we never did.
Love stinks.
Fishing?
Yeah. Pearl lake or something.
I've got some tackle in the truck.
You do?
Audrey, there are many cures for a broken heart. But
nothing quite like a trout's leap in the moonlight.
#2.020
May I?
Yes. You may.
Audrey takes his arm. HOLD ON Pete and Audrey as they walk back to the truck.
EXT. WINDOM EARLE'S CABIN - NIGHT
Establish.
INT. WINDOM EARLE'S CABIN - NIGHT
The cluttered interior of Earle's cabin. Earle's three Queens, Audrey, Shelly, and Donna -
posted upon the wall. Briggs handcuffed to a chair, mumbling incoherently. Leo held fast by
his leg chains. Earle works feverishly, referring to the Owl Cave hieroglyph on his computer
screen, a series of maps, open books before him. The books are astrological in nature, various
charts and planetary configurations. Just now: Earle completes his computer rendering of the
Owl Cave hieroglyph.
If Jupiter and Saturn meet, oh what a crop of mummy
wheat...
Leo watches Earle closely. He seems more alert with each passing moment. And sympathetic
to the Major's plight. Earle addresses him, teacher to pupil, gesturing to the hieroglyph.
The planets that our babbling Major spoke of, are more
than distant orbs. They are, in fact, a clock. A clock
that tells a time. And the time...?
Earle looks to Leo for the correct response. Leo says nothing.
The time draws nearer with each ticking tock. Dale
wasn't far wrong, the cave painting is an invitation of
sorts, telling us when the revels begin. But what Dale
doesn't know, is where to find it.
Earle's fingers dance across the computer keyboard. Calling up two squares upon the screen.
The hieroglyph. And a map of Twin Peaks.
#2.020 Revised 2-8-91, PINK
For you see, the cave painting is not only an invitation...
Earle taps instructions, watches as the two squares move closer upon the computer screen until
superimposed atop each other.
...it is also, a map. A map to the Black Lodge.
CLOSE ON COMPUTER SCREEN. It's a perfect match. A beat. And the two images
begin to vibrate, almost imperceptibly. Earle leans closer. Music up. The images vibrate
faster and faster, the superimposition has unleashed dark magic. Earle smiles, delighted.
Begins to LAUGH. Leo holds his hands to his ears, pained by sound only he can hear. The
vibrations reach a fever pitch and... the computer SPUTTERS and goes BLACK. CAMERA
MOVES RAPIDLY TOWARDS THE DARK SCREEN...
EXT. MONTAGE/ WOODS - NIGHT
Suddenly: a series of IMAGES, fast-paced, accompanied by the appropriate music, the
sounds of owls, raging wind.
JOSIE screams, trapped within the drawer pull.
CAMERA POV races madly through the woods, headed toward the Black Lodge.
Then, in an instant, quite jarringly - SILENCE, a grove of trees, the air still and calm. An
eerie beat. An ARM coalesces in midair, inch by inch, now reaches about testing the cool
night, fingers prodding. The wind begins to rise. Satisfied, the arm recedes, disappears.
A beat. BOB'S disembodied HEAD follows. Fierce winds blow, shaking the trees with
mighty force. Bob's floating head peers about, now snaps back into a feral HOWL. Then Bob
VANISHES in a BLINDING FLASH OF LIGHT.
The winds recede. All is calm again. Save for the patch of SCORCHED earth below.