Episode 2.005
Scanned by runningdog.
Original formatting duplicated as closely as possible. For
clarification all duplicate pages removed. Special note: this is a
faithful duplication that includes the original spelling, formatting and
series related errors.
August 17, 1990
August 17, 1990
August 21, 1990 - BLUE
Lynch•Frost Productions
7700 Balboa Boulevard
Van Nuys, CA 91406
(818) 909-7900
LYNCH/FROST PRODUCTIONS, INC.
7700 Balboa Boulevard
Van Nuys, CA 91406
Tel: 818-909-7900
Fax: 818-909-0700
Due to the continuing narrative nature of our show, please do not divulge
the contents of story lines to anyone. This script is for your eyes only.
Thank you for your cooperation.
#2.005
EXT. GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL - MORNING
Establish.
INT. COOPER'S HOTEL ROOM - MORNING
COOPER sits on the edge of the bed in his boxer shorts. Flips on his tape recorder.
Diane, it's 6:42 a.m., a bit of a late start, due to a
persisting soreness in the rib area ...
An ache that feels as if a wing were cut away in my
sleep.
Diane, a strange dream to report: I dreamt I was
eating a large, tasteless gumdrop. I soon awoke to
realize I was aggressively munching on one of my
Air-Pillow Silicon Ear Plugs. Hence the
tastelessness. I suspect some unexpressed feeling of
aggression is responsible.
Diane, rather than equilibrate through the use of my
gravity boots, which could induce further rib
separation, this morning I'm going to attempt a
headstand.
I'm now upside down, my mind becoming porous,
the day tasks coming into focus, objects growing
clearer ...
Looking out in the darkness of the stained wood floor, which now looks to us like the ceiling.
Cooper sees a white envelope under, or rather over, the bed. Cooper unfurls and reaches for
it.
"My special agent ..."
Diane, the Giant was right. I did forget something
He opens the envelope, pulls out the card and reads Audrey's lost note.
EXT. SHERIFF'S STATION - MORNING
Establish.
#2.005
INT. SHERIFF'S STATION RECEPTION AREA
HAWK enters, encountering HARRY TRUMAN, who awaits Cooper's arrival.
I was afraid we lost you to the Kalispell woods.
A pair of retired female schoolteachers lived in that
house next to the Palmers. The name's not
Robertson and they had no memory of a greyhaired
man. Had to drink three pots of camomile tea to
find that out.
#2.005
All right. The one-armed man's come back into the
picture. Take a look, so far we've struck out.
LUCY MORAN walks up carrying a day bag and looking a little teary-eyed.
Excuse me, Sheriff, I'm sorry to interrupt, but
Sheriff, I just wanted to say goodbye because as you
know, I'm going down to Tacoma for two days to
visit my sister, Gwen and her husband, Larry, who
had a baby last week, you remember, it was a boy
and as soon as the Can Do temp girl gets here I'll
explain the phones and the coffee and the intercom
and the Wagon Wheel Do-Nut run and ... and ...
Lucy. It's okay.
No, she should have been here by now, I can wait and
at least show her ... show her ...
Lucy. Go.
With silent gratitude, she picks up her bag and exits ahead of Hawk. Cooper then enters,
eyes cool, intently ablaze. Both he and Truman instinctively step toward an empty corridor.
Harry -
'You get word on our delivery tonight?
We won't need it. We've got the jump on them.
I know where Audrey is.
EXT. LEO JOHNSON'S HOUSE - DAY
Establish.
#2.005
INT. LEO JOHNSON'S LIVING ROOM - DAY
A hospital bed has replaced the living room sofa. In a wheelchair beside the bed sits BOBBY
BRIGGS, allowing the medical supplies salesman, TIM PINKLE, to demonstrate a lifting
apparatus. Pinkle is a pasty, perspiration-prone man with an affectation of high duty.
SHELLY JOHNSON stands a step removed, looking on.
The Port-O-Patient will allow you to fluently
transport the unfortunate Mr. Johnson, allowing him
even to sit outside and experience what he can of
nature.
Mr. Pinkle, I want my cousin Leo to have the fullest
possible experience of life.
That's what we're here for. Let's take
Pinkle inspects the electrical engine that, along with the rest of the host, looks to be quite
antiquated. Bobby sits in the loose body sling connected to an overhead bar by two sagging
crossing chains, giving this crane-like device the look of a silvery praying mantis.
Mr. Pinkle are you going to put in a ramp.
Ah... sure. I've got some plywood, uh, pinewood
ramp boards I'll install outside. Absolutely.
Pinkle finds the switch to start the engine.
Okay, here we go.
He flips the switch. Nothing happens.
That's a new wrinkle. It was working the other day.
Pinkle fiddles with the cord to the socket. Nothing. Suddenly the engine starts. The bar jerks
up and the chains snap tight across a frightened Bobby, who's yanked up from his seat and
tossed back down. Then the machine stops. Flashing Pinkle a homicidal look, Bobby fights his
way out of the chains, sling, and chair.
Bobby, 'you alright?
#2.005
How about getting Mr. Pinkle a cold drink?
As Shelly leaves, Bobby pulls Pinkle aside by the back of his neck.
That thing's a death trap, Pinkle. I told you we have
to keep him alive.
Insurance companies don't exactly pay off like the
slots. After both our cuts, it was either this or a first-
rate wheelbarrow.
Shelly returns. Pinkle takes the soda and dives into tinkering with the machine.
Bobby?
I've got to meet Leo's lawyer.
The hearing's today, right?
Be just another second, folks.
Bobby, are we okay?
His response is a passionate stare. She smolders back. With Pinkle about, they can do no
more than look and want. But outside ... Bobby takes her hand.
Come on, he can let himself out.
They exit. Pinkle, studies the non-working hoist. After a moment he climbs up into the sling.
Testing. He shouts back to Bobby.
Probably a short in the switch.
Pinkle reaches down and hits the switch a couple of time; finally, the bar lifts, the chains
tighten and the salesman rises.
There we go ...
#2:005
But the machine doesn't stop, lifting Pinkle up to a precarious height and pulling him back,
his arms pinned by the crossing chains.
Hit that switch down there, would you, Bobby?
Bobby? ... Bobby?
EXT. ROADHOUSE - DAY
Establish.
INT. ROADHOUSE - DAY
The entry doors have been closed, the tables pushed against the front wall. Two rows of
chairs face a long, solid judge's table at the back of the room. Andy escorts Leland past
Cooper and Truman, standing near the door, to a defendant's table in the front row. The
prosecutor's table sits alongside, SARAH PALMER and MADDY FERGUSON sit behind
Leland in the second row, along with a few habitual COURT WITNESSES. Leland takes
Sarah's hand for a moment.
The small group stands as JUDGE CLINTON STERNWOOD, all in shining black robes,
strides expansively into the room; a rich, magisterial presence and powerful, uncluttered
eyes. His trailed by SID, his bailiff. Appraising the prosecutorless situation, Sternwood stops
beside Cooper and Truman.
Morning. Where's Lodwick the prosecutor?
Hasn't shown.
Took a long constitutional this morning. The path
leading down to the waterfall. A fine, invigorating
mist in the air. There was a twelve-point buck
drinking from the pool; he saw me but didn't bolt.
Time stood still. I In the presence of the eternal, I
suppose that's as it should be.
#2.005
CONTINUED!
BEN HORNE has entered, late, immediately makes his way to the power in the room.
Benjamin.
Your Honor, a pleasure, sorry I missed you last night.
Your dining room served a wild boar with a cherry
sauce that I haven't yet found the words to describe.
I've been around the Great Northern since the dawn
of man. Hammered my way through law school
there.
Clinton worked construction for my father. In my
boyhood memory he built half the hotel single-
handedly.
There's a door near my room, opening out to the
back, that's like nothing I've ever seen. Two panel
oak, all joined with tongues, tenons, and dowels.
Not a nail or a screw in it.
Thank you. I remember that door. Dryclamped and
lying in the sun. Beautiful piece of work -
DARRYL LODWICK, the state prosecutor, arrives, apologetically approaching Sternwood.
Sorry, I had a bit of trouble. Lost my wallet.
Enter the State.
#2.005
INT. ROADHOUSE - DAY
Sitting alone and imposing at his long table, Sternwood GAVELS and commences.
Mr. Palmer has pleaded not guilty to the charge of
murder in the first degree. Defense has requested
bail. This is a pretrial hearing to determine if that
bail will be granted. Mr. Prosecutor ...
We, the people of the state of Washington, move that
the defendant be denied bail on the basis of: 1)the
great seriousness of the crime for which he's been
accused; 2) the apparently premeditated nature of
this act; and 3) the oft-witnessed instability of Mr.
Palmer during the period following the death of his
daughter.
All eyes are on Leland as Lodwick sits.
Sheriff Truman will speak for the defense.
Mr. Palmer is a well-known, respected member of
this community, with a good professional reputation
and established roots. And beyond that ... I'd like
to say that none of us can really know what it's like to
lose a seventeen year-old daughter the way he did.
What that might do to any one of us ...
That's all.
Sternwood deliberates. Truman takes his seat beside Andy, who is glancing up and over a
row up at Leland's partial profile. Truman glances down at the sketchpad in Andy's lap and
sees ...
Andy's sketch of Leland, from the same angle as just seen by Truman: a profile favoring the
back left side of the head.
Andy notices Truman's attention.
I thought I might sell this to the Gazette. They
seem to like courtroom sketches.
You might try for a little more of his face. Just a
suggestion.
#2.005
Good. Thanks, Sheriff.
Sternwood gavels.
On the basis of his high standing in the community,
the pristine nature of his public and private
reputation and his evident respect for the letter of the
law, which is well known to me ... defendant is
released on his own recognizance. Leland, as you
know, I'll require you to remain in town, making
your whereabouts known to the Sheriff on a regular
basis. Sid, check the calendar. We'll set the date for
Mr. Palmer's trial.
Reactions all round: for Leland, a shred of dignity retained.
EXT. HAROLD SMITH'S APARTMENT - DAY
Establish.
INT. HAROLD SMITH'S APARTMENT - DAY
HAROLD SMITH leads DONNA HAYWARD in, sits behind his mahogany desk. DONNA
HAYWARD sits in the antique chair opposite.
So, what behind those deep blue eyes today?
I've got a proposition for you.
Now you've got my attention.
I'll share my fife with you. I'll tell it to you. Be a
part, of your living novel ...
If I can read Laura's diary.
Intriguing.
I'll read it to you, It mustn't physically leave this
room.
#2.005
Acceptable.
You'll start?
Acceptable.
Harold undoes the secret bookshelf. Donna tries not to make an obvious point of observing.
He tries to casually conceal the fact he's concealing how the locking mechanism works. He
takes out a fresh ledger, lays Laura's diary on the desk beside him, makes a show of taking
out an expensive fountain pen and cracks open the new book.
Donna ... Hayward.
Begin ...
Alright. I'm from Twin Peaks. That is I was born
here. My father delivered me. He's a doctor.
Where are you from?
I grew up in Boston. Actually, I grew up in books.
There are things you can't get from books.
There are things you can't get anywhere. But we
dream they can be found in other people. Continue.
Donna stands, comes over to the desk coquettishly along its edge.
Maybe our dreams are real.
Harold nervously pull back. Donna quickly grabs Laura's diary and playfully steps away.
#2.005
My turn ...
No, we've only just started. Please.
He steps towards her. Donna mischievously throws open the front door.
Maybe I'll read it out here on the lawn.
Give that back to me, please.
Why don't you come out with me? Come on.
What's there to be afraid of?
She backs through the open doorway. He bolts forward; but suddenly it's as if she's backed
over a cliff. His face flushes at the flood of daylight. A trembling ignites in his fingers.
Oh God ... oh God ...
Harold?
He gets down on the ground, hyperventilating, looking almost paralyzed.
DONNA (CONTINUED).
Harold?
His breathing locks. She hurries to him, kneels down, half-props him against her chest, he
grasps at her, trying to breathe again.
It's all right. It's all right. I'm so sorry.
I just ... I just got too close.
To what?
As his panic fades, seeking and finding permission in her eyes, he kisses her tenderly. They
look at each other.
#2.005
INT. ROADHOUSE - DAY
Leo Johnson competency hearing. Judge Sternwood is holding court, facing Prosecutor
Lodwick and JACK RACINE, a sardonic defense attorney representing Leo Johnson.
We begin CLOSE ON a blown-up photograph of Leo Johnson, before and after injury and a
diagram on an easel Racine is showing to the judge and closeby gallery area, occupied by
Cooper, Truman, and Shelly Johnson. The diagram is of two EEG waves, one large and
varied, the other flat and undisclosing.
You can see by these EEG's, the one above, which is
actually of my own head and intended to show
normal brain activity . The line below is of Mr.
Johnson and shows minimal activity. The previously
submitted medical report states that Mr. Johnson has
suffered diffuse brain damage. He isn't currently
even capable of taking the standard CST
competency tests. We therefore submit that trying
this individual would constitute a mockery of the
justice system, a proceeding the unfortunate young
man wold not even faintly comprehend.
Racine withdraws.
Mr. Prosecutor.
Lodwick stands, takes a posturing step toward an almost empty gallery, and accidentally
makes eye contact with Shelly Johnson before folding back toward the judge.
I know that Leo Johnson isn't in very good shape. On
the surface, it might seem ridiculous to make him
stand trial. But a trial doesn't just punish a
wrongdoer; it also brings a feeling of justice and
retribution to a community. Among the various
crimes he's suspected of, the murder of Laura Palmer
is the sort that can wound an entire town.
#2.005
For there to be even a shred of feeling that the
perpetrator of this terrible crime got away with it -
- this simply cannot be. As long as Leo Johnson
carries a breath, he is as eminently deserving of a
trial as this community is of a resolution -
All right, have a seat, Mr. Lodwick. You fellas catch
your breath, I'm going to need to deliberate.
Mr. Cooper, Sheriff Truman if I could have the
pleasure of your company ...
Sternwood waves them over to join him at the bar.
Sid, how about fixing me up a Black Yukon on Sucker
Punch?
Sid contentedly goes to work behind the bar, concocting an elaborate drink. Cooper and
Truman flank Sternwood at the bar.
Lodwick really planted his feet and looked it in the
eye. I didn't think he'd press on the murder charge.
Is Leo Johnson your man?
No, sir, I don't believe he is.
Harry, what's the town's temperature? Do they want
a trial or a lynching?
They want the right man brought to justice.
Then they don't a need a circus. This poor bastard
seems to be a head of cabbage. Thoughts, Cooper?
I feel the right man will eventually be apprehended.
Sid brings Sternwood his drink. With full ritualistic relish, Sternwood lights a cigar. Looks
#2.005
over at Shelly, sitting alone, looking small.
I declare Leo Johnson not competent to stand trial.
When medically possible, he may be sent home.
Harry, maybe you'd like to tell the little lady
yourself.
Truman nods gratefully, moves to Shelly.
How long you been here, Cooper?
Close to two weeks, sir.
I'll advise you to keep your eye on the woods. The
woods are wondrous here. But strange.
Sternwood drinks his drink, his eye on some distant, sinister horizon. Truman kneels down
beside Shelly, who, distracted, doesn't notice him at first.
Shelly? They're not going to try him.
Her silent, complex response.
Leo's coming home.
A beat. Shelly's face seems to ask, who is really being sentenced?
EXT. ED HURLEY'S HOUSE
Establish.
INT. HURLEY'S LIVING ROOM
JAMES HURLEY waits inside the open front door. NADINE, with ED behind her, enters
entranced and confused in the doorlight. James moves to her.
Can I get you anything, Nadine?
#2.005
who are you?
Who am I?
From behind her, Ed rolls his eyes in explanation of the fact that there is no explanation, and
that this is pretty standard behavior. Nadine suddenly grins in recognition.
You go to the high school.
Well ... yeah.
It took me a second. You're not in any of my classes.
Ed or no Ed, James is knocked over.
Why don't you sit, honey and I'll get you a drink.
No, I'll get it.
Where are mom and dad?
They're ... out of town.
Oh. Okay.
She goes into the kitchen.
Wow.
Doc said to roll with the punches, James.
What about Jacoby? Why don't you take her to see
him?
#2.005
He's in Hawaii, recovering from that heart attack.
Agent Cooper said I should talk to someone about
... what's been going on. Laura. And Donna. And
Maddy ...
Donna's a good girl, James. Her kind are pretty rare.
I'm just so damned confused ...
Confused?
A sudden RIPPING SOUND from the kitchen. Ed and James trade looks.
James, I'm a little confused myself.
Nadine, shocked, steps into the living room entranceway; in one hand she is gripping, by
its handle, a refrigerator freezer door.
It just came right off.
EXT. GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL - DAY
Establish.
INT. BEN HORNE'S OFFICE - DAY
BEN HORNE enters carrying a black briefcase.
Mr. Tojamura is here.
Mr. Who?
Ben looks up to see an ASIAN GENTLEMAN, dressed in a loose-fitting dark suit and
sunglasses, step crisply toward the guest chair and unhesitatingly take a seat. An impeccably
dressed VALET trails behind him. Ben puts the briefcase behind his desk.
#2.005
Excuse me? Did you have an appointment, Mr. ... ?
Tojamura. I represent Asian investment firm. We
have superior offer for Ghostwood Project.
Revolutionize Northwest tourism. We have
commitment letters from Tokyo banks. Prepared
to move immediately.
I'm sure this all sounds very interesting, I
unfortunately have a very important conference call in
a couple of minutes...
Here is prospectus ...
Perhaps another time, Mr. uh ...
And taste.
The valet hands Tojamura a check. He pushes it across the desktop.
Five.
... million.
He picks up the prospectus with renewed interest.
INT. GREAT NORTHERN CORRIDOR - DAY
HANK walks in and heads immediately for Ben's office. BOBBY enters at a safe distance and
watches Hank disappear down the hallway. Cooper enters moments later.
INT. BEN HORNE'S OFFICE - DAY
Seeing Tojamura to the door.
I want you to leave all this with me and let my
people take a look at it.
#2.005
Point of visit.
Hank enters, stops when he sees Tojamura. Ben waves Hank back. Tojamura bows to Ben.
Ben bows back.
Look forward to further discussion.
Arrigato, Tojamura san.
Tojamura exits. Hank watches him go.
Cooper's on way his in.
The phone starts to ring. Ben looks at his watch, waves Hank towards the inner office door.
Hank disappears, an instant before Cooper enters the office.
You, pushed it pretty close.
Is that our call?
Exactly as we discussed.
Ben nods, picks up and puts it on the speaker phone.
Benjamin Horne.
JEAN RENAULT'S VOICE
Are you ready to play?
Let me speak to my daughter.
RENAULT'S VOICE
That can wait til tonight. One time:
... across the border, five miles east of Grand Forks
on the road to Castlegars, is a bar called the
Columbian. Behind it is a failed amusement park.
Go to the merry-go-round. Leave the briefcase
beside the horse with no head. At midnight. Alone.
#2.005
Midnight.
And you'll of course have Audrey there with you ...
I'll ... I'll be sending my representative -
The line goes dead on Ben. He puts down the phone and opens the briefcase. Cooper scans
the money.
Serialized denominations. As you instructed.
Cooper closes the case and takes it in hand.
My daughter's life is in your hands.
I'll bring her back. Stay by a phone.
Cooper exits. A moment on Ben. Hank comes out of inner office.
Follow him. Make sure that he and the money are
neatly delivered. Bring Audrey back.
Cooper's not bringing her back?
Cooper's not coming back. And if you can manage
it ... bring back Audrey and the briefcase.
Already on the wavelength, Hank nods, steps back into the blackness of the hallway.
#2.005
INT. DOUBLE R - NIGHT
Donna and Maddy sit at the dining table with a homemade drawing of the floor plan of
Harold Smith's Apartment between them. Two pocket flashlights sit on the table.
Once you're in the Harold's apartment you have to go
as fast as you can.
This is scary.
This is for Laura.
Her diary is in a secret shelf at the very bottom of
the bookcase behind a row of fake books. There's a
doohickey on the right hand side of the bookshelf,
when you pull it out you can slide the secret shelf out.
All of the notebooks in there look the same, except
for Laura's. It's smaller. has a red cover -
How are you going to get him to go outside?
Not outside. Just out of the front room.
I'll signal you through the window. The door will
be open.
I thought you liked this guy?
I do like him.
Doesn't it make you feel a little weird, stealing
from him?
Look, if there's nothing in that diary we'll give it
back to him. But we have to know.
And if there isn't, do you think you'd still want to
#2.005
see him?
Yes. I like him. A lot.
A beat. Maddy smiles.
Why don't I just sneak in when the fireworks start.
They laugh quietly.
Right.
EXT. ONE-EYED JACK'S - NIGHT
Establish.
#2.005
INT. BLACKIE'S OFFICE
JEAN RENAULT sits at his desk in shirtsleeves, one sleeve rolled up for him to strap a knife-
launcher into his forearm. Its black metal chute holds the knife against a taut spring up near
the elbow. BLACKIE watches.
Cooper hands me the briefcase. I take it.
Renault thrusts out his forearm as if to take a briefcase. With a distinct sound, the knife
whistles down the chute and bolts to a stop well past the hand area, a show of gleaming,
finest-cut steel blade.
What about Ben Horne?
He relinquishes control of Jack's. It's all yours.
With his daughter dead?
You love a good steak, but you don't want to know
how it got on your plate.
With Battis gone and Home out of the way, you're
going to have to get serious about your business,
Blackie.
How are you going to do the girl?
Renault motions to a syringe, drugs and chemistry set on his desk. Blackie moves seductively
towards Renault, with an eye on the drugs.
#2.005
Is it my turn to play?
A knock on the door. Nancy enters. The two sisters/enemies stare at each other. Renault
allows Blackie to take some works for a fix.
In the other room.
Blackie exits.
The girl asleep?
Dreamland.
Does she dream of fishes? Of dark lake beds and
tangled weeds?
Renault caresses her leg, pulls a knife from her boot. Nancy doesn't move.
What about Blackie? I've waited long enough.
We'll have our fun tonight.
Renault caresses her with the knife.
EXT. DOUBLER DINER - NIGHT
Establish.
INT. DINER - NIGHT
Norma pours coffee for James, preoccupied, eating dinner at the counter.
How's Nadine coming along?
Nadine?
#2.005
Is she feeling stronger?
Yeah. She tore the freezer door right off the
refrigerator.
Was she mad about something?
No. She was happy.
The front door opens. TOJAMURA enters. Norma freezes. Tojamura nods.
Dinner for one?
Tojamura, nods again. Norma shows him to a booth facing the front window and hands him
a newly calligraphic menu. Maddy hurries into the diner. Stops short when she sees James.
Tries to look past him looking for a waitress
Hi.
Hi.
Can I get a coffee to go?
Seen Donna today?
No, sorry. You?
No. What's with the coffee?
Coffee? It's for Uncle Leland.
You don't have coffee at home?
James, I can't talk now. I need to go.
#2.005
You need to go?
Where are you going?
Home. Bye, James.
Maddy leaves. James probingly watches. Waits. Then gets up and follows her out. Norma
and Hank exit from the kitchen, Norm carrying a plate of food. She points out Tojamura to
Hank.
Louise said he checked into the Great Northern under
the name of Tojamura. This must be the food critic.
Does he have ponytail?
I think he's been here already.
What? When?
Let me handle this.
Hank takes the plate from Norma, moves towards Tojamura carrying the sliced turkey and
mashed potatoes smothered with gravy. Norma looks on anxiously from the back of the
room. Hank glides up and slides the plate through the air, holding it for an instant under
Tojamura's.
Our specialty.
He then shoves the back of the Asian's head forward, ramming his face into the gravy
mountain of mashed potatoes. Hank drops the plate on the table, slaps his palms clean in self-
satisfaction, and looks back at a stunned Norma.
This guy's no critic, he's a ...
Tojamura's mud-and-cloud face rises. Hank glances down. Realizes. Wrong Asian. He looks
back at Norma's Face of Death.
#2.005
INT. SHERIFF'S STATION RECEPTION AREA - NIGHT
The last half hour before closing up. ANDY BRENNAN concludes a bravura evening
manning the switchboard. His chest and surrounding area are covered with yellow post-it
notes.
No, sir, I'm sure not the regular girl. She's gone to
Tacoma to visit her sister. There's supposed to be a
number for her written down here somewhere.
Andy begins to look for it, but that's not what the caller is concerned about. Andy listens to
him for a moment.
Well, I'm certainly not a lawyer, sir, but my
interpretation of the law would be that if your
neighbor's cow has each of his four hoofs completely
on his property, but his head is stretched over into
your property and he's chewing up your ...
Well, I'm certainly no veterinarian, but I think that
would kill the cow. Right. Okay. Bye.
Andy disconnects. A pause in the action brings him to his moment of truth. He takes out a
scribbled piece of paper. Exhales. Dials.
Yeah, I'm calling for some test results. Doc
Hayward said I could just call you an ... what's it
for? It was for a ...
Semens analysis. Brennan. Andy.
Yes? Uh, could you go slow, I want to write all this
down.
Oligospermia. That sounds terrible. I have that?
Oh, I had it. "Too few sperms." Had it? You mean
I'm cured?
Doc said, "They're not just three guys on a fishing
trip,
#2.005
they're a whole damned town." Yeah, l know what
that means; they're not really real people, they're ...
okay, thank you. Thanks very much.
Andy hangs up. He is overjoyed. Truman peeks out of his office curious about Andy's
excitement. Andy turns to him.
I'm a whole damned town.
INT. TRUMAN'S OFFICE
Cooper and Truman at Truman's desk, leaning over Cooper's floor plan of One-Eyed Jack's.
This is what I saw at One-Eyed Jack's. Main bar
and greeting room. Offices here. Casino and
Get-acquainted Room.
HAWK enters. Cooper adroitly sweeps the map to the side, a move the deputy notices.
The one-armed man's been staying at a motel on
Highway 9. No one's seen him for the last day, day-
and-a-half. His room looks lived in. I found this.
Hawk empties a paper bag of SYRINGES and several VIALS OF LIQUID.
Same drug, as before.
Weird, deep smell.
We're still waiting for Albert's analysis. Good
work, Hawk.
Hawk grabs a look at the plans. Truman dismisses Hawk's concern.
See you in the morning, Hawk.
Hawk exits. Cooper breaks the floor plans back out.
We'll approach thru the woods from the back. Scale
this hill to the rear door.
#2.005
Our entry point.
Inside are stairs that lead down to the rooms. And
Audrey.
What kind of muscle do they have?
Couple of floor men in the casino. May be more
inside, I never went back there.
Let's go get her.
INT. RECEPTION AREA
Truman and Cooper sweep by Andy. After they go out Andy reviews his scrap of paper
containing the fertility information and notices for the first time the blotter upon which it sits.
Lucy's blotter, with a swarm of phone numbers, one of them distinctly circled. His eyes are
drawn to this fresh-looking track. He picks up the phone and dials. Two rings.
Adams Abortion Clinic ... hello?
Andy's face and phone hand are frozen.
#2.005
EXT. HAROLD SMITH'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Maddy sits behind the front bushes, coffee cup in hand, eyes fixed on Harold Smith's
bedroom window.
INT. HAROLD SMITH'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
Donna and Harold sit together as before, she on the chair, he behind the desk. Harold opens
the diary with quiet ceremony. Quietly, with muted intensity, he begins:
Donna Hayward. Tuesday. March the seventh.
Second session.
Harold looks up at Donna, waits for her to begin. Donna pauses, tongue-tied, a little
embarrassed. She sips from her glass of wine, as if to seek inspiration. Harold offers a
comforting smile. And some unexpected humor:
"Dear Diary ...
Donna smiles, shrugs.
Tell me a story.
What kind?
Anything you like. It's a diary. Filled with loves
and hates.
#2.005
Loves.
Good.
A beat. Harold waits for her to begin. Takes a sip from his own glass of wine. Finally:
Uhm ... "Dear Diary ..."
This is from a long time ago. Is that okay?
All right. Uhm ... I'm thirteen years old. Fourteen
maybe. Me and Laura put on our tightest shortest
skirts. Too tight, but Laura talks me into it. And we
go to the roadhouse to meet boys.
Donna pauses. Harold watches her intently, writes as he listens. The room is suddenly very
quiet and still. Almost eerie. As Donna gains the confidence to remember:
Their names are Josh, Rick, and Tim. About twenty
years old . A nd they're nice to us, they treat us like
we're older. Rick asks if we want to parry and Laura
says yes.
There's a stream in the woods. It seems pale and
light out. The boys build a fire. I like Tim the
best. He isn't so full of loud jokes like the others.
Rick gets out a bottle of vodka and Laura starts
drinking. I can't believe how much she drinks. She
hands it to me. I take a sip. It feels good.
Laura starts to dance around the boys. Moving her
hips back and forth. Rick starts to clap. But Tim
doesn't do anything. He just watches. Somehow that
makes me mad. So I say, "Let's go skinny-dipping."
#2.005
We take off our clothes. I know the boys are
watching us. The water feels really warm. The boy's
legs are white and I can see them under the water.
When Laura starts to kiss Josh and Rick, I don't know
what to do. So I swim away. I think maybe I want
to run but I don't. Tim swims over to me. I let him
kiss me. And I let him touch me. Once.
When we leave, and this is what I remember best, the
boys are really nice. They don't make fun or talk
down to us. And Tim ... Tim kisses my hand when
we say goodbye. Then he kisses me.
I can still feel that kiss. His lips are warm and
sweet. My heart sort of jumps. He's talking to me
but I don't really hear him. Just the kiss.
I never saw him again. It was the first time I ever
fell in love. But Laura ...
Donna exhales, a little overwhelmed. Tears shine in her dark eyes.
That's all.
Sorry.
That was beautiful, Donna.
Harold closes the diary.
#2.005
INT. HAROLD SMITH'S GREENHOUSE - NIGHT
START CLOSE on a cymbidium orchid. Pale yellow and red. Quite beautiful. Harold
Smith's voice is HEARD.
HAROLD'S VOICE
Most people imagine orchids growing in exotic
steamy jungles. But you can grow them anywhere
with the right kind of care. I mean it's all basically
water and light, isn't it? Here. Look.
ANOTHER ANGLE reveals Harold and Donna in the greenhouse. Artificial light. Rows of
potted orchids. Harold delicately holds an orchid in his palm.
It's beautiful.
Humidity is paramount. The control of it, I mean.
Too much moisture is an invitation to disease.
Three sepals, three petals bottom petal shaped
like a lip is called the labellum.
The colors ...
It's a landing platform, really. For pollinating
insects.
Donna's fingers touch the petal. Then brush against Harold's hand.
It's sort of romantic.
Harold now takes Donna's hand into his own. She turns toward him. And they kiss with
greater intensity than before. Something akin to passion. A beat. Harold steps back from her.
Will you excuse me for a minute?
#2.005
Sure.
Harold steps away into his bedroom. The SOUND of running water is HEARD. Donna
reaches into her purse, grabs the flashlight. And races toward the front window.
EXT. HAROLD SMITH'S HOUSE - NIGHT
Maddy SEES the tiny window flashes. She rises up from behind the bushes and does an
eggshell walk toward the bungalow door.
EXT. ONE-EYED JACK'S - NIGHT
Re-establish. Hank stands in the shadows, watches something in the near distance. He speaks
into a cellular telephone with quiet urgency.
Ben, we've got a problem. The drop at the merry-go-
round's not for two hours and Cooper's at One-Eyed
Jack's. And he's not alone.
EXT. AROUND BACK - NIGHT
Up over a hillside ridge, a walkway runs just the back French doors. ANGLE ON a GUARD
on patrol. He hears a NOISE behind him and starts to reach for his gun, but there's suddenly
a strong yank on his arm. Truman stuffs a rubber ball into his mouth and almost
simultaneously slaps into handcuffs behind his back. Then from another pocket in his jacket,
he seals the ball in place with tape. Cooper inspects Truman's JACKET. A modified fishing
vest loaded with burglary tools. Cooper nods appreciatively. Gestures forward.
They approach the back door. Locked. Truman plants in odd piece of iron between the
French doors. Props it between the French doors, pushes the doors in and as they bounce
back out and OPEN.
INT. ONE-EYED JACK'S - NIGHT
Cooper and Truman enter atop a long, ill-lit stairway. They look about, alert, ready for
anything, then start down the stairs. Party sounds abound from the adjoining main rooms.
Cooper and Truman walk past the first hallway of noise, the casino, gliding by, trying to
make themselves invisible. As they approach the next level, a GIRL leads a CUSTOMER out
into the hall.
#2.005
They, freeze against the wall: She looks up the stairs and happily prances right past them, a
little drunk, not seeing. Cooper and Truman exhale. They descend past this level toward the
darkness of the bottom floor.
INT. ONE-EYED JACK'S HALLWAY - NIGHT
Cooper and Truman move stealthily down the hallway. They near Blackie's office, a window,
their view limited by drooping red curtains. Truman peers inside. Signals "two" occupants to
Cooper. Cooper gestures a reply. Stay put. I'll circle in the other direction. HOLD ON
Truman for a beat, as he scoots closer, tries to get a better look inside.
INT. ONE-EYED JACK'S HALLWAY - NIGHT
Cooper moves quietly down the hall, looking left and right. Suddenly a woman appears. It's
Nancy, Blackie's sister. Cooper doesn't hesitate.
Please take me to Audrey Horne. Now.
I don't think she's available.
Cooper takes out his pistol.
Let's double check.
Cooper takes Nancy by the arm. Allows her to lead him forward.
INT. BLACKIE'S OFFICE - NIGHT
START CLOSE on a video monitor showing Cooper playing blackjack. ANOTHER ANGLE
reveals Jean Renault, glancing at the screen from time to time. He holds a small spoon in one
hand, a lighter in the other. He fixing a hot shot for Audrey. Blackie watches, waits.
Not such a bad way to go. All things considered.
#2.005
Is she alone?
Nancy's with her.
What does she do for you that I can't?
You do all right.
Renault loads the syringe with a practiced hand. Everything proceeds in business-like fashion.
Blackie steps a little closer, eyes on the drugs that remain.
INT. ONE-EYED JACK'S HALLWAY - NIGHT
Truman leans against the wall, having witnessed much of the latter. He looks down the
hallway for Cooper, some sign. But sees and hear nothing. Truman scoots a little closer to the
office door. Considers his next move.
INT. ONE-EYED JACK'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
Cooper and Nancy enter the bedroom. Cooper sees Audrey, dazed, bound up on the bed.
He gives Nancy a quick stare: of controlled rage. She equivocates:
It's not my idea, okay? We're nothin' but meat on a
hook to these people.
I'll do whatever I can to help. Serious.
Cooper's not listening. He kneels at Audrey's side.
Audrey. Can you hear me?
Mmmmm ... Who ... ? ... My ... my prayers ...
#2.005
Audrey, I'm going to take you out of here now.
Cooper hears the sound of brushing silk. He reacts, turns in time to SEE Nancy take a stiletto
out of her boot. Her hand sweeps forward, blade flashing. Cooper shifts to avoid. But the
steel catches his arm, rips and tears. Cooper grabs Nancy's wrist with his free hand, wrenches
the knife from her grasp, sends her sprawling with a punch to the jaw. She's out cold.
Cooper retrieves the knife, cuts Audrey's ropes. He bundles her in the top blanket, takes
Audrey into his arms. Cooper moves as quickly as is possible. He knows he is running out of
time.
INT./EXT. BLACKIE'S OFFICE - NIGHT
Truman watches as Renault places the loaded syringe in his pocket Steps toward the door.
Blackie follows, now steps in his path. She smirks, sidles into Renault's arms. A deep kiss.
Truman crouches by the doorway, reaches for his pistol. Ready for action. Just then: the
unmistakable WHISTLE of Renault's spring-loaded KNIFE.
Blackie gasps, sags. Feels the blade enter her torso. Renault removes the knife, releases her.
Blackie falls dead from his embrace to the floor.
Truman reacts with shock. pistol in hand, he stands, turns toward the office.
Inside the office, Renault spots Truman. He reaches for a pistol, FIRES. Truman ducks for
cover. Renault's bullet strikes a window, glass shatters, flies. Truman marine crawls to a
better vantage point. He rolls, pistol aimed, ready to fire, but Renault is GONE.
#2005
INT. ONE-EYED JACK'S -CORRIDOR
Cooper hurries down the corridor, Audrey in his arms. Truman meets him from the opposite
direction. Neither has time for conversation. They turn toward the nearest exit. Truman leads
the way. Suddenly: another BODYGUARD appears between them and the exit. He holds a
gun in his hands. Means to use it.
Drop the gun.
Truman deliberately places his gun on the floor. Cooper holds Audrey tightly in his arms,
says nothing. The bodyguard's gun cocks. Then a hollow drum-like SOUND. Truman turns
to see the guard fall forward, a bowie knife lodged deep between his scapulas. Halfway up
the stairs is Hawk.
Good thing you guys can't keep a secret.
Cooper, Truman, and Hawk dart up the stairs.
EXT. THE HIGH RIDGE - NIGHT
Cooper, Truman, and Hawk are VIEWED from a HIGH ANGLE. Racing with Audrey into
the shadows.
ANOTHER ANGLE reveals this to be Hank's POV. He speaks into the cellular phone:
There's been gun fire. Cooper and Truman are
leaving with your daughter .....
A GUN moves into FRAME, pointed at Hank's head. Hank hangs up without another word.
SHOT EXPANDS to show Jean Renault holding the pistol.
Hank's hands slowly go up. Renault reaches over into Hank's coat pocket and pulls out a
wallet. Opens it. He reacts with surprise.
INSERT - WALLET
Darryl Lodwick's state prosecutor's identification is prominently displayed.
#2.005
INT. HAROLD SMITH'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
Maddy stands against the bookcase, looking for the button Donna described. She runs her
hand along a panel, then down it's side. A button! The panels open. Maddy looks in at the
hidden bookcase.
INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT
Donna peers out the greenhouse window into the living room. Follows Maddy's progress.
Suddenly: Harold Smith returns, takes her by surprise. Donna reacts with a start.
Hi.
Is something wrong?
Harold turns toward the window. Donna moves to intercept.
No. You scared me a little that's all. I ...
Harold pulls free from her grasp, steps to the window. Donna nearly pleads.
Tell me about the orchids. This one ...
Too late. Harold stalks forward.
INT. HAROLD SMITH'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
Maddy excitedly reaches for the diary with Laura's name embossed upon it. She pulls it out
too quickly knocking several books to the floor. Maddy turns toward the greenhouse
window, GASPS.
Harold Smith stands on the other side of the glass, face distorted, now staring at her with
anger.
INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT
START CLOSE on Harold's hand grabbing a gardening tool. Three metal prongs, sharp claws
to tear and rend.
Smith strides toward the living room. Donna pleads, follows.
#2.005
Harold, no. You don't understand. Maddy?!
INT. HAROLD SMITH'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
Maddy stands frozen near the hidden bookshelf, Laura's diary in her hands. Harold puts
himself between her and the door, armed with the metal tool. Donna reaches for his arm, he
rips free from her grasp, shoves her toward Maddy and the hidden books.
Maddy and Donna stand together, breathless, afraid. Harold Smith pauses, just stares at them
for a beat Feels the black weight of their betrayal. Then, quietly, almost a whisper, he speaks:
Are you looking for secrets? Is that it? Maybe I can
give you one. Do you want to know what the
ultimate secret is? Laura did.
The secret of knowing who killed you.
Maddy screams.