TWIN PEAKS #21
by
Scott Frost
Scanned by runningdog.
Original formatting duplicated as closely as possible. For clarification all
duplicate pages removed. Special note: this is a faithful duplication that
includes the original spelling, formatting and series related errors.
November 5, 1990
SECOND DRAFT - General Distribution: November 14, 1990
November 16, 1990 - BLUE
November 26, 1990 - PINK
November 27, 1990 - GREEN
November 28, 1990 - YELLOW
Lynch/Frost Productions, Inc.
7700 Balboa Boulevard
Van Nuys, CA 91406
(818) 909-7900
Revised 11-28-90, YELLOW
014
INT. SHERIFF TRUMAN'S OFFICE - NIGHT
Close on the fibers of a fabric tape. We slowly pull back revealing that it is the tape covering
the mouth of the DEAD MAN. A surgical gloved hand reaches into the frame and slowly
pulls the tape off the mouth, inside the mouth attached to the tape is a black chess piece - a
pawn. We pull back to DOC HAYWARD, AGENT COOPER.
Good Lord.
Cooper reaches in, removes the chess piece and examines it: it's a match to the pieces on the
chess board set up on the table. HARRY enters the room.
No one saw a thing. The blackout and fire drew
everyone out of the building.
Andy, we'll need this dusted for prints ...
Cooper drops the chess piece in a bag and hands it to ANDY standing inside the door with his
eyes closed so he won't see the body and cry. He reaches out for the bag, misses it. Truman
puts it in Andy's hand. Andy turns to leave and walks into to the wall with a thud. Andy peeks,
adjusts his trajectory and makes it.
How long has he been dead, Doc?
Hard to tell; we'll need an autopsy.
Doc, open the victim's shirt. I believe you will find an
incision, a stab wound one inch beneath the sternum,
penetrating upwards, severing the aorta.
Hayward and Truman exchange a look then Doc opens the shirt. Cooper was right.
You've seen this before.
No blood stains.
014 Revised 11-28-90, YELLOW
Cooper picks a pine needle up off the floor. Then walks to the middle windowsill, examines
with magnifier. HAWK comes in the door.
Hawk, footprints?
Two sets, same boots; one coming, one leaving. Heavier
impressions on the way down.
Carrying the body.
We should get molds made of those before it rains.
He'll have been wearing the wrong size shoe, untraceable
and already destroyed.
I followed them to the granite stream up the ridge, lost
them on the rocks.
He knows how to mask a trail ... any cars stolen in town
recently?
There was one a couple of days ago, from the Cash and
Carry on Sparkwood. No witnesses. Cooper, you're
sure Windom Earle's behind this?
Cooper nods, steps to the window, looks into the darkness.
A short time ago, a vagrant ... our victim was befriended
and offered a lift. He was given some cheap wine and a
cigarette. The victim was then driven to a location up
behind the ridge, you'll find the car still up there. He
was stabbed, once, managed to run at least fifty yards,
cutting his hands and face on brush before collapsing.
Earle engineered the explosion that caused the power
failure, created the diversionary fire that drew everyone
outside the station, then brought the body in through this
window.
Windom Earle has been in this room. I can still feel his
presence. There aren't going to be any fingerprints in
014 Revised 11-27-90, GREEN
here, Harry. No slip-ups, oversights, no mistakes.
Everything he does has its own rationale, precision and
intelligence. Windom Earle is a genius. And he's taken
his first pawn. In a very sick game.
EXT. GREAT NORTHERN - NIGHT
Establish.
INT. GREAT NORTHERN LOBBY - NIGHT
AUDREY and BOBBY sit at a small round table. The power is out. Candlelight illuminates
the scene. They have drinks between them. Plus a bucket of ice. Audrey drops a few cubes
into Bobby's glass and a few into hers.
Listen carefully, Bobby Briggs, here's what we're gonna
do. If I have learned anything from my father before he
flipped his wig it's that a business relationship is a
sacred pact, equaled only by the closest of personal
relationships ... where nothing is held back.
Right.
Do you want to get rich, Bobby?
Immediately.
Maybe I can help. This is the last of the ice cubes till the
power comes back on.
She reaches over and picks an ice cube out of Bobby's drink.
Now, pretend this is my father.
She closes her hand around it.
An ice cube?
014 Revised 11-27-90, GREEN
Right. And our job now is to help my father find his
way back from Limbo-Land so he doesn't melt away and
leave me with a handful of nothing.
She reopens her hand, the cube is melted.
We wouldn't want that to happen, would we?
No.
From now on Bobby I'm the one you suck up to.
She licks up the melted water.
What about Shelly?
What about Shelly?
Bobby's eyes grow stalks. He finishes his drink.
EXT. LEO JOHNSON'S HOUSE - NIGHT
Establish, not a light on.
INT. LEO JOHNSON'S HOUSE - NIGHT
POV, moving frantically through the darkened kitchen into the living room and to the door.
We pull back, SHELLY desperately tries to open the door but it's been locked from the out
side.
No!
She looks back into the kitchen, it's pitch black, she can't see a thing.
014 Revised 11-26-90, PINK
Oh, God ... please no.
The sound of a creaking wheel on the wheelchair is heard.
Leo?
Out of the darkness comes Leo's wheelchair directly toward her, it knocks over a lamp, comes
closer and closer. She jumps out of the way as it crashes into the door. Shelly starts for a
window, something flies through the air and lands at her feet. She freezes; a bar of soap in a
sock lays on the floor. A guttural laugh rises out of the darkness.
Don't do this, Leo.
From the darkness comes.
Le...O. Le...O.
The refrigerator door swings open. The light from inside illuminates a grinning crazed-
looking LEO.
F-u-n-s o-v-e-r.
Leo laughs again. The refrigerator slowly closes. From the darkness comes the sound of a foot
dragging across the floor. Shelly makes a break for it, out of the darkness Leo's hand grabs
Shelly by the neck, pulls her close to him.
Le-o go-od.
He smiles, then throws her across the table, sending her and everything on the table crashing
into the corner.
Fu-n.
Leo shuffles toward Shelly, his left leg and arm not quite up to snuff. He stops, reaches up and
turns on the radio.
Le-o like mu-sic.
014
Shelly picks up a toaster and hurls it at him, bouncing it off his chest. Leo looks at the
toaster, then down at his chest.
Ow.
Shelly tries to run again, no luck, Leo has her, grabs her by the throat. He starts to spin her
around, his grip tightening on her throat as he does. Shelly tries to pull away, but even with
only one good arm Leo it too much, desperately close to passing out she strikes, gouging at his
eyes. Leo erupts in a rage, throws her into the living room where she crashes against the wall.
Leo then flips the kitchen table over and lets out an animal like howl.
EXT. LEO'S BACK DOOR - NIGHT
Bobby steps up to the door, still buzzed from the evening with Audrey, takes in a deep breath
of the fresh night air, and hears Leo's howl.
INT. LEO'S
A bruised and battered Shelly cowers in the corner as Leo slowly approaches, a silent monster.
EXT. LEO'S - NIGHT
Bobby tries the door but it won't open, then bangs on it.
Shelly? Shelly?
Bobby walks over to the window and looks in, rubs on the glass to get a clearer view. Shelly
pulls herself up to the glass, bruised and crying.
Shelly?
We hear the howl again, then Leo's fist comes crashing through the window. Bobby tumbles
away from the window in terror.
Leo?
From inside we hear Shelly scream, as Leo grabs her.
014
Bobby!
Bobby races to the door and tries to break it in, no luck.
INT. LEO'S - NIGHT
Leo has Shelly by the hair and is dragging her toward the living room. Off screen we can hear
the frantic pounding and shouts of Bobby. They reach the kitchen and Leo drops her onto the
floor. Stands over her for a long moment.
Good-bye wi-fe.
He raises up his big boot above her face, a tear falls from his eye, he's going to crush her.
Shelly screams. Bobby bursts through the back door and is on Leo before he can react. They
tumble to the floor, for a moment Bobby has an advantage.
You bastard!
Leo suddenly reaches up with tremendous strength, grabs a surprised Bobby by the neck and
flips him on to the floor, then is on top of him. Leo smiles.
Hell-o Bob-by.
Leo begins to laugh, then tightens his grip. Bobby gags, the throat is beginning to go. Bobby
manages to reach into a pocket and pull out his lighter, flicks it on. Leo stares at the flame,
transfixed. Bobby moves the lighter close to Leo's face. Leo smiles, transfixed. Bobby then
adjusts the flame and it shoots up into Leo's face, he erupts in a scream and covers his face with
his hands.
Ahhhh!
He stands, bounces off the walls knocking things down, then runs out into the darkness. Bobby
crawls over to Shelly, takes her in his arms, a tear falls from her eyes.
Bobby.
It's okay now, he's gone.
014
Don't leave me again, please, Bobby, please.
I'm here, baby, everything's all right now.
From out of the darkness we hear another one of Leo's howls. We move in on the open door,
creaking on it's hinges.
014 Revised 11-26-90. PINK
INT. SHERIFF TRUMAN'S OFFICE - MORNING
A flashbulb whites out the scene. When it clears, we are on a white sheet being draped over the
dead man laying on a stretcher. We pull back to Cooper looking tired from a long night of
forensic work which is winding up.
No prints, no fibers. You were right. If it's Earle, he
didn't miss a beat.
Did you hear from Denise, uh, Agent Bryson?
The DEA and the Bureau have cleared me of all criminal
charges. But the suspension stands. I'm waiting to hear
from Gordon
In the meantime you're still my deputy. This case is
your's if you want it.
Cooper looks at the body as it's carried out.
I want it, Harry.
Hawk enters.
Found that stolen car on a logging road just as you said
... no prints. And just so you know, Hank Jennings
missed the buy at Dead Dog because he was in the
hospital. Claims he was hit by a bus. I cuffed him to
the bed and booked him for parole violation. One more
thing: Shelly Johnson just called. She says Leo Johnson
came to last night, attacked her and ran off into the
woods.
Harry and Cooper react. Another flashbulb goes off.
INT. SHERIFF'S STATION, RECEPTION AREA - MORNING
Close on Andy trying desperately to pull off the surgical gloves he is wearing. He yanks, he
pulls, one last try and it shoots off across the room, sticking to the sliding window of
Lucy's office. Lucy looks up as Andy peels it off the glass.
014 Revised 11-28-90, YELLOW
/11
Lucy, we need to talk... It's about Nicky.
Little Nicky?
Dick and I have been doing some thinking and some
looking and we think he's a ... he's a ...
A what?
The stretcher with the body is slowly wheeled out by TWO ATTENDANTS. One of the
wheels squeaks incredibly loudly. Both Andy and Lucy's eyes are glued to the body as it
slowly passes and exits.
We think he murdered his parents.
He's nine years old.
I know. We think he was six at the time of the crime -
I met little Nicky. I talked to little Nicky. If you two
think, for one second that I'll believe a little defenseless
orphan is a murderer ... the both of you aren't fit to be
fathers to a chimp!
Lucy reaches out, grabs one of the fingers on the glove Andy has on, stretches it out several feet
and lets go... wap!
I'm going to get to the bottom of this, right now.
She storms out.
014 Revised 11-27-90, GREEN
12/13.
EXT. MARSH ESTATE - DAY
Looking under the hood of the Jaguar.
JAMES moves out from under the hood, finds a smiling Jeffrey and EVELYN.
I'm Jeffrey Marsh, James. I've been hearing very good
things about your work from Evelyn.
See how you feel when you drive it.
I'm sure it will be fine. Sounds like it's lucky we found
you.
James can't place this pleasant man with the one who beats his wife. He feels like hell.
Lucky for me too.
I hear you're on the road.
Yeah. Will be again soon, I guess.
No itinerary, no deadlines ... I'm envious. Wish I was
going with you.
Evelyn locks her eyes on James who can feel the heat. Jeffrey opens the door to the car.
Maybe after I take her out for a spin we'll talk shop.
Sounds like we have a mutual love.
Cars?
014 Revised 11-27-90, GREEN
Yeah, I don't know, I'm kind of overdue already...
Of course he'll stay. There are plenty of things I can
find for him to do... right James?
Yeah, maybe.
Excuse me.
James leaves, heads for his room.
Nice kid.
He looks at Evelyn.
He's done a fine job on the car.
Jeffrey slides into the car and ignites the engine. Races the motor.
Let's see what it will do on the open road.
Evelyn kisses him through the car window.
Bye... Jeffrey.
INT. BEN'S OFFICE GREAT NORTHERN - DAY
Close on the flames in the fireplace. We pull back. BEN HORNE, dressed as General Lee,
puffs on a cigar as he sights a small cannon. On the floor of the office are toy soldiers in
marching columns and an elaborate train set. DOCTOR JACOBY sits across the battle field,
pencil and note pad in hand. The office doors swing open, Audrey enters with JERRY.
Ben?
He prefers General.
He's marching on Washington. We think he's getting
close.
014 Revised 11-27-90, GREEN
Jeb!
Jerry looks at Audrey.
He thinks you're General Jeb Stuart.
You're with the cavalry.
Jeb, a great day is upon us. By dawn our troops will be
on the outskirts of Washington. By mid-day it will fall,
and we will once again walk on my cherished fields in
Arlington.
Only God can stop us now. And it is my firm belief,
Jeb, that the almighty is a Southerner.
Ben moves back to his soldiers. Jerry looks at Audrey, then back at his brother, tries to smile.
Hallelujah ...
Jerry glances over to Jacoby, motions him over to join Audrey and himself
You think it's a good idea for Ben to be carrying a
sword?
Your brother is suffering from delusions brought about
by emotional collapse. He thinks he's on a forced march
to Washington. He's crossing the Maryland border as we
speak.
He's nuts.
Why don't you let your uncle Jer decide that for himself.
Ben picks up the flag and waves it.
Oh, Ben.
014 Revised 11-26-90, PINK
Actually what he is doing is quite healthy. By reversing the South's
defeat in the civil war he will in turn reverse his own setbacks. What he
needs now is both your understanding, a confederate victory, and a good
price for his cotton. Metaphorically speaking.
Jacoby smiles. Jerry looks over at Ben.
Men of the South, from this day to the ending of the earth we who fight
shall be remembered. For our bravery. For the battle scars we bear.
We few. We happy few. We band of brothers. Onwards... to
Washington.
INT. TRUMAN'S OFFICE - DAY
Close on the chess board set found with the body. We slowly circle it, coming to Cooper,
intently staring at it. Coffee cup in hand. Harry joins him.
How does chess figure into all this?
Cooper studies the board for a moment, then looks at Harry.
Because we played a game every day for three years. Windom felt all
of life could be found in the patterns and conflicts created on the board.
And because I never beat him, and we both know it. Now I have to
make my next move. I'll publish it in the Twin Peaks Chronicle
tomorrow. That should do it. He's close.
Coop, I think I need some more information here.
Harry, I've brought some baggage to town with me I haven't told
you about.
Well, as your superior -
Cooper turns to Harry. The coffee cup shakes in his hand. Both notice. For the first time
Truman sees fear in Cooper's eyes.
Windom Earle was my first partner. Everything I know about the law
and the bureau I owe to him. Four years ago we drew the assignment of
protecting a material witness in a federal crime. She was a very gentle,
very beautiful woman. Her name was Caroline. She and I ... fell in love.
014 Revised 11-27-90, GREEN
What happened?
One night, I failed in my vigilance. An attack was
made. I was wounded, stabbed, lost consciousness.
When I awoke, Caroline was in my arms. She was dead.
She had also been stabbed.
The wounds on the vagrant?
Identical. The killer was never caught. My wounds
healed. Windom Earle ... went mad. Institutionalized,
until his recent escape.
So why is he after you now?
Harry, Caroline was Windom Earle's wife.
Harry takes a seat.
So he blames you for her death.
No. It's worse than that - much worse. I think he killed
her. And I think he also committed the murder that she
originally witnessed. He used to beat her, Harry, that's
what I found out when I ...
Windom's mind is ... like a diamond. It's cold and
hard and brilliant and at some point he stopped caring
about right and wrong. I also believe Windom feigned
the insanity that sent him away. You don't know what
he's capable of. You don't know.
014 Revised 11-27-90, GREEN
17A. EXT. MARSH ESTATE - DAY
Wind whips thru the trees. MOVE DOWN to discover the Marsh House.
INT. JAMES ROOM, MARSH ESTATE - DAY
CLOSE ON James' saddlebags, his things laying next to them on the bed, ready to be
packed. Evelyn stands looking over them, fingering the clothes as James walks out of the
bathroom. He stops when he sees her.
Don't you knock?
I'm sorry. Are you leaving?
Yeah.
He walks over to his bags.
You were good with Jeffrey.
It didn't feel like good.
I can change that.
014
She kisses him passionately, then begins to pull his shirt off. James pulls back.
Look, I can't do this, it's wrong.
Love isn't wrong, James, it's just complicated ...
James walks over to the window, then turns and looks at her. The look melts her, and she
realizes it.
Please ... don't leave me. Don't leave me alone with
him.
They stare for a moment.
I have to check my bike.
James walks out. We move in on Evelyn as she turns and looks at James' saddlebags.
EXT. GARAGE - DAY
James walks over to his bike, tries to gather himself. Then picks up a wrench. He wants to
throw it but doesn't.
18A. JAGUAR WHEEL:
The wheel fills the frame, slowly begins to spin faster and faster until it reaches a blur.
18B.THE WRENCH:
Flying through the air, smashing a MODEL OF MARSH'S JAGUAR sitting on a shelf. We
pull back to James, he's in trouble. (PRODUCTION NOTE: shoot alternate take without
the jaguar model.)
014
EXT. WALLY'S BAR - DAY
Establish.
INT. WALLY'S - DAY
Close on a jukebox as a record is lowered onto the turntable. We pull back as DONNA
stands at the door. She moves to the bar.
Coffee, please.
The BARTENDER goes for the coffee. Donna takes in the scene. Sitting at the other end of
the bar is Evelyn. The bartender returns.
I'm looking for a biker. His name is James. James
Hurley. He's expecting me. He's expecting this.
She holds up an envelope. The Bartender looks her over, then glances at Evelyn and nods.
Donna takes out a cigarette. She strikes a match, we follow it up to the cigarette.
You look like someone in need of help.
Donna studies her for a moment.
Do I?
How old are you?
Eighteen.
Maybe I can help.
I can take care of myself
You on the road by yourself?
014
A long beat. Donna senses something about Evelyn.
I'm looking for someone.
Evelyn smiles, studies her for a moment.
What's his name?
James.
James. James Hurley?
Yes, do you know him? Know where he is?
He did some work for me recently.
What kind of work?
He fixed my husband's car.
Donna tries to decide if this woman is a threat.
Where is he?
He left, yesterday. On his bike.
Where'd he go?
He said something about the ocean. Mexico. I'm not
sure.
That's all?
Evelyn shakes her head. Seems to really feel for Donna.
014
Are you what he's running away from?
Donna doesn't say anything, holds onto her coffee. Evelyn finishes her drink.
Why don't you go home, dear ... a girl like you ... he'll
be back.
Coffee's on me.
Evelyn walks away, Donna looks at the dollar bill, then turns as the bar doors swing shut. We
move in as she stares at the swinging doors.
EXT. DOUBLER DINER - DAY
Establish.
INT. DOUBLE R - DAY
We follow NORMA taking a huge plate of potatoes and roast beef over to BIG ED, who's
seated with DOC HAYWARD.
Extra potatoes.
Norma smiles, she and Ed hold the look for a long moment.
Thanks.
She leaves. Doc notices the look between them.
Where's Nadine, Ed?
She's got a wrestling match up at Knife River. Doc,
Nadine's what I wanted to talk to you about. You're a
father, girl in high school ...
Doc, Nadine wants to start dating other boys, and I,
well, I don't know what to say.
Is she sexually active?
014
Active? I wake up every morning feeling like I've been
run over by a lumber truck.
The extra adrenaline.
It's downright dangerous. She's liable to kill a young
kid. I don't know what to do.
Be patient. And tell her to be home by nine o'clock on
school nights.
Ed, Donna took the van this morning, said something
about going to look for James. Is there anything I need
to be worried about?
He's out west a couple of hours, just trying to clear his head,
I think. Donna's taking him some money.
It's not easy being a parent is it?
It sure ain't.
Doc leaves, Norma walks over with a piece of pie. Slides in across from Ed.
Hank's in the hospital. He says a tree fell on him.
Doesn't have anything to do with this, does it?
The tree was a redwood named Nadine.
Honey, after you left yesterday, Hank jumped me, right
in my own living room. The truth is, if Nadine hadn't
walked in when she did, it'd be me in the hospital or
someplace worse.
Nadine took out Hank?
Yep. And it wasn't pretty.
014
Norma sits back, they study each other.
Harry called, they're arresting Hank for a parole
violation. When he's well, he could be going back to
prison. I think it's time I start correcting a few of the
mistakes I've made.
He reaches out, takes her hand.
We could start by getting a cabin, a bottle of sparkling
wine and some venison steaks.
People will find out.
Ed grips her hand.
Let'em.
Norma smiles, we move in on their fingers lacing around each other's.
INT. SHERIFF STATION - DAY
CLOSE ON the the face of an exhausted MAJOR BRIGGS, standing at the front door, we
pull back. The Major is a wreck, barely makes it to Lucy's desk.
Major Briggs?
I need to see the Sheriff.
He looks at her, and slowly sinks to the floor.
INT. TRUMAN'S OFFICE - DAY
The Major, Harry and Cooper all gulp very large glasses of water. Lucy stands by with a large
pitcher for refills. They all finish at the same time.
More?
I'm fine.
014 Revised 11-26-90, PINK
Fine.
Fine.
Lucy leaves. Truman and Cooper turn their attention to Briggs.
Major, what happened?
As men who have dedicated their lives to service, I know
you are able to understand how sacred I hold a pledge of
allegiance. And the cost one must pay when breaking a
pledge.
It can be very great.
The Air Force, I thought was not unlike other societies
of men, dedicated to the fight for good.
Harry and Cooper look at each other wondering. Briggs gets up from his chair.
Gentlemen, frankly I'm worried. When my superiors
questioned me about my disappearance they exhibited a
degree of suspicion and intolerance bordering on the
paranoic. I must now admit that their motivation in the
search for the White Lodge is not ideologically pure.
I believe that during my disappearance I was taken to
the White Lodge. I remember virtually nothing, but I
have the clear intuitive sense that there is much trouble
ahead.
What kind of trouble?
I am not aware of the form it will take.
I will return. Until that time, I will be in the shadows if
you need me. Good day, gentlemen.
014 Revised 11-27-90, GREEN
On that note he leaves. Harry and Cooper are left a little dumbstruck.
The shadows?... Can you beat that.
Nope.
Andy knocks and enters.
Excuse me, Sheriff, Agent Cooper, may I show you
something?
He leaves, Truman and Cooper follow.
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY
Truman and Cooper enter, join Hawk and Andy. At the other end of the room stand Jacoby
and LANA.
Good, I wanted everyone to hear this. I have just spent
most of the last twenty four hours with this charming
young lady. And as you can see, I have no bruises, no
broken bones. Any claims by her deceased husband's
brother that she is cursed and somehow responsible for a
death is nonsense. What she does possess is a heightened
sexual drive and a working knowledge of technique,
anatomy, and touch, few men have ever had the pleasure
of experiencing, or the skill to match.
Lana blushes, smiles. Looks them all over. Pause.
Is it warm in here?
Yes.
Cooper steps forward, extends his hand.
Lana, let me be the first to congratulate you.
Thank you. I could never have done it without Dr.
Jacoby.
014 Revised 11-27-90, GREEN
Okay. Well, then, we're going bowling.
Jacoby and Lana walk out. They all look at each other for a moment. Cooper whistles, as in
"Put your lips together and blow."
Amen.
A moment later we HEAR a scream.
INT. HALLWAY - DUSK
Jacoby and Lana are staring down the barrel of a huge shotgun, held by DWAYNE
MILFORD. Truman, Cooper, Hawk and Andy rush into the hall. Their guns drawn.
Don't anybody move. Shoot and I'll take'em both with
me.
Mr. Mayor, put the gun down.
014 Revised- 11-16-90, BLUE
INT. SHERIFF'S STATION - NIGHT
looking down the barrel of the shotgun pointed at Lana and Jacoby. The gun then
moves across Harry and the rest of the assembled.
Anybody moves and I'll blast her to kingdom come.
The gun swings back to Lana and Jacoby.
And the hippie too.
We pull back.
Mr. Mayor, this is not going to solve anything.
She killed my brother!
Mr. Mayor, Lana has killed no one.
Horse dung. Come over here, Lana. Come over here.
No one moves. Cooper steps up.
Fellas, why don't we let the Mayor and Lana talk this
over alone.
I don't want to talk, I want to shoot.
You can always shoot later, Dwayne. Talk first.
Right in here. Go ahead, Lana, it'll be fine.
Dwayne backs into the conference room with a reluctant Lana and closes the door.
What do we do now?
014
Wait.
Wait?
Cooper nods. Pause.
Are you sure?
Nope.
They wait; it's not as easy as it sounds. After several silent moments, Jacoby starts to chuckle,
then stops. Several long moments pass. Everyone is getting fidgety.
It's kind of hard ... waiting.
Everyone nods. Several more moments pass. Jacoby chuckles again. More silence, then
Cooper steps over to the door of the conference room and listens.
OK.
He motions Hawk to the other door, they all take out their guns, then burst in.
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT
All guns are trained on Dwayne ... with Lana sitting in his lap in the middle of a deep,
passionate kiss. The guns are all holstered. Dwayne, covered in lipstick, finishes the kiss and
looks up, beaming.
We've decided to adopt a child.
Lana kisses him again.
He's so much like Dougie, I feel like my husband's been
brought back to life.
I've been lonely and selfish. I hope you'll all forgive
my boorish behavior. Come along, dear.
014 Revised 11-27-90, GREEN
They get up and walk out, leaving everyone a little stunned.
I could use a drink.
This might be a good time for it.
29A. EXT. BLUE PINE - NIGHT
Establish.
29B. INT. BLUE PINE KITCHEN - NIGHT
PETE stares intently at a piece of paper on the kitchen counter, takes a long thoughtful drink
of coffee, looks down at the paper again, then starts to take another drink , but stops and breaks
into a smile, and points at the sheet of paper.
Hot dogs, we forgot hot dogs.
CATHERINE enters, studies the scene for a moment.
Did Josie go shopping yet?
Yep, but we forgot the wienies. All beef, with the skin
on.
If I can tear you away from this high-level executive
decision making for just a moment, I've got something
014 Revised 11-26-90, PINK
29B. CONTINUED:
to show you.
Catherine walks over to the office doors, Pete follows several feet behind. They stand at the
closed doors for a moment.
Have you asked yourself, Pete, how I survived after the
fire? How I was able to effect my transformation into
Tojamura and marshall the resources I needed to defeat
Ben and win back the mill?
Now that you mention it ... yeah.
Catherine opens the doors, revealing ANDREW PACKARD. Pete is speechless.
If it isn't sneaky Pete Martell.
Andrew ... I saw the boat ... you ... you ...
Take all the time you need. Good old Pete.
As you can surmise, I had Andrew's help.
So, let me get this straight, you didn't die in the boat
accident.
We didn't tell you, Pete, with apologies beforehand,
because you didn't need to know. And frankly ... we
didn't want you to.
Okay. Well, if you're bringing anybody else back from
the dead, I vote for Veronica Lake.
We discovered the attempt on my life was coming and
arranged for this little deception.
014 Revised 11-26-90, PINK
29B. CONTINUED:(2)
Lord, who tried to push the button on you, Andy?
Does the name Thomas Eckhardt mean anything to you?
No.
Eckhardt and I were business partners. I knew lumber, he
knew Hong Kong. We made a lot of money, had some
fun ... then I got the better of him in a piece of business
and he tried to stab me in the back ...
Really?
In a manner of speaking. He's a very dangerous and
powerful opponent.
He plotted Andrew's death for six years. After he
thought Andrew was dead he came after me.
Does Josie know you're alive, Andy?
Catherine and Andrew glance at each other. As if talking to a child.
Pete, dear, Josie worked for Eckhardt.
That's right. She did? My God ... is she still?
We'll find out when Eckhardt arrives.
He's coming here?
Andrew nods.
I've never known Josie's seductive powers to fail. He'll
come for her... Like a rat for cheese.
014 Revised 11-28-90, YELLOW
32A.
29C. INT. SHERIFF STATION, LUCY'S AREA - NIGHT
The fax machine begins to beep. Truman steps behind the desk to retrieve the incoming
message. We see concern on his face. Andy and Cooper sit behind him.
Lucy walks in with Doc Hayward and DICK TREMAYNE. Everyone stops, sizes up the
situation. A stern Doc zeros in on Andy.
Andy, in here, we're going to talk.
Andy dutifully follows Doc into Truman's office. Truman studies the fax. Troubled.
Coop, we've got another problem. I need to ask you a
favor.
That brings him back.
Harry, there's something we have to get straight. You're
in charge, I work for you now. You say jump, I'll jump.
Cooper smiles, so does Harry.
This just came over the wire from Seattle.
He shows him a clipping from a Seattle newspaper. MURDERED MAN FOUND IN
ALLEY NEAR AIRPORT. And a picture of Jonathan, the Asian man. Murdered.
She told me she got away from him.
You think she is responsible for this?
I guess that's what I need you to find out.
Cooper studies the fax.
014 Revised 11-26-90, PINK
INT. TRUMAN'S OFFICE - NIGHT
Close on Andy and Dick seated next to each other. Doc stands above them, his arms folded
across his chest. Lucy vigorously paces the room.
When Lucy told me about your "theory" I called the
orphanage and cut through the red tape. I immediately
got to the bottom of things because I was there when it
all begin. Little Nicky is no more a murderer than
Lucy or I.
I believe pathological was the phrase we used, Doc -
Dick, I didn't drop you on your head when I brought you
into this world, don't give me cause to regret that.
Doc, it's just -
Shut up and listen, the both of you.
Lucy smacks a bug with a flyswatter like it's a baseball.
Little Nicky entered this world through the back door
where hope and promise never saw the light. His mother
was a poor immigrant chambermaid at the Great
Northern. Nicky was conceived during an assault by a
man in a back alley who fled across the border. She
never reported it to the police, but when she started to
show she reported it to me. But Nicky's mother had a
dream for a better life, for herself and her child. It was
the dream that brought her to this country. She decided
to carry that child. The poor wretch never saw the boy.
She died just as Nicky took his first breath. I delivered
that woman's baby. We buried her in Potter's Field and
sent the infant to the orphanage. For several years he was
shuttled from one state home to another. Then one day,
hope finally shined on little Nicky. A young childless
couple brought him into their lives. They were loving,
caring parents. It all collapsed in one terrible moment
on an icy highway. There was a crash. Six year old
Nicky managed to pull both his parents from the
burning wreck, but it was too late, and Nicky was alone
once again, as he is today.
014 Revised 11-26-90, PINK
I hope you two are happy!
We move to Andy and Dick who are weeping uncontrollably.
EXT. GREAT NORTHERN - NIGHT
Establish.
INT. GREAT NORTHERN LOBBY - NIGHT
CLOSE ON a hand coming down on the bell on the reception desk. The CLERK approaches.
Good evening, how may I help you.
We pull back to reveal a tall, very muscular woman named JONES.
I have two suites reserved.
Name?
Eckhardt.
Jones turns and looks across the lobby. Standing by the fireplace is Thomas Ekhardt,
a mysterious, severe looking man, wearing sunglasses. The Clerk studies them for a
moment, sensing something different about these two people.
Welcome to Twin Peaks.
Jones nods to Eckhardt. We move in on him as he turns toward the fireplace. The flames
reflect in his glasses, we move in tight as the sound of the flames becomes louder and louder.
INT. JAMES ROOM - MARSH ESTATE - NIGHT
James is packing his saddlebag when the door opens and Evelyn enters. Her concern is
immediate when she sees that he is packing.
James? What are you doing?
014 Revised 11-26-90, PINK
What does it look like I'm doing?
Are you leaving? Are you leaving?
She walks over and runs her hands up his back to his shoulders. James spins around and grabs
her by the wrists.
I can't stay here anymore.
I don't understand -
It's wrong.
She pulls away from him.
Because ... because I'm married.
Yes. Yes.
She walks over to the window, looks out. A police car pulls up.
I love you, James.
Save it.
I've never said that to anyone in my life, but I'm saying
it to you now.
ANGLE OUT WINDOW, as two OFFICERS exit the car. BACK ON EVELYN, she
turns from the window, there are tears in her eyes.
There's been an accident. Jeffery is dead.
A light bulb goes off in James's head as she walks toward him.
014 Revised 11-26-90, PINK
His car?
Yes.
You killed him.
She reaches him, tries to hold him.
No. No.
My God. You set me up.
It was Malcolm's idea... He's not my brother.
Hurry, the police are outside.
James rushes over to the window and looks out. Another car pulls up.
Go find that young girl who loves you.
James rushes over and picks up his bag, looks at her for a moment.
Go.
James goes to the back door, opens it and starts out.
33A. EXT. MARSH HOUSE
James runs for the woods. Donna's voice stops him.
James -
Donna?
Donna comes out from hiding. They hug.
This way. We've got to hurry.
014 Revised 11-26-90, PINK
33A. CONTINUED:
They start to run into the woods, but James runs back for a moment to see Evelyn moving
towards the arriving POLICE OFFICERS. Donna pulls James along.
EXT. WOODS - NIGHT
The wind blows the trees, it's a wild night.
Someone moving clumsily through the trees, smashing and breaking branches. Heavy
labored breathing can be heard. Then a wolf howls, we spin around looking for it. The gentle
sounds of a flute become audible drifting through the forest. We pull back. It's Leo, he starts
to follow the music.
A CABIN, a candle in the window. The music drifts out. Leo crashes through some brush,
and sees it. An owl hoots.
INT. CABIN - NIGHT
The cabin is in shadow except for the candle by the window. We SEE a hand set down an
ornate wooden flute, then pick up a gun. The door swings open. Leo stands there, panting,
damaged.
Bar ... bar of soap ... bad girl...
Leo laughs, focuses on the figure in the doorway, the gun. He takes a step backward.
No, no. Come in.
It's all right, I'm a friend. Come in.
Leo tentatively steps in.
You look like you've had a very hard night.
Leo nods, grunts.
Come, sit. I will help you. What's your name?
Leo struggles with concept of friendship.
014 Revised 11-26-90, PINK
Leo...
The MAN steps into the candlelight.
Well, Leo, you can call me Windom. Windom Earle.
A gust of wind rushes through the cabin. We pan to a chess board set up on a table, the wind
knocks over a piece, then blows out the candle.