Episode 2.004
Scanned by runningdog.
Original formatting duplicated as closely as possible. For
clarification all duplicate pages removed. Special note: this is a
faithful duplication that includes the original spelling, formatting and
series related errors.
August 8, 1990
August 13, 1990 - BLUE
LYNCH/FROST PRODUCTIONS, INC.
770 Balboa Boulevard
Van Nuys, CA 91406
Tel: 818-909-7900
Fax: 818-909-0700
Due to the continuing narrative nature of our show, please do not divulge
the contents of story lines to anyone. This script is for your eyes only.
Thank you for your cooperation.
#2.004
INT. SHERIFF'S INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY
START CLOSE on LELAND PALMER, his face a dark mask of grief. SHERIFF
TRUMAN'S voice is heard:
TRUMAN'S VOICE
Leland, you have the right to an attorney.
Leland ... ?
No, no. I waive that right. I'm a lawyer ...
I'm going to ask you some questions. Anything you say
may be held against you in a court of law. Do you
understand?
Yes. Of course.
TRUMAN'S VOICE
On Friday morning, March third, did you go to
Calhoun Memorial Hospital?
Leland answers quietly, intent, as if commenting on the actions of someone else.
Yes
TRUMAN'S VOICE
Why did you go there?
I was looking for someone.
TRUMAN'S VOICE
Who were you looking for?
The man who killed my daughter.
TRUMAN'S VOICE
Did you know his name?
#2.004
No. Yes. I do now. Jacques Renault.
What made you think he killed Laura?
You arrested him.
Leland ... did you kill Jacques Renault?
He killed my Laura. The things he did to her... have
you ever experienced ... absolute loss?
I doubt any of us is a stranger to grief.
It's more than grief. So deep inside you, every cell
screams. You hear nothing else.
Yes I killed him. Yes, Yes, Yes ...
Leland Palmer breaks down and cries. Truman, Cooper, and DOC HAYWARD arrayed
about the weeping man. HOLD ON this tableau for a beat.
INT. SHERIFF'S STATION HALLWAY - DAY
Cooper and Doc Hayward exit interrogation and walk down a station hallway.
He'll plead temporary insanity.
We'll need a psychiatric exam. I can tell you this.
Parents should not bury their children. Anyone who's
suffered what Leland has ...
#2.004
Do you approve of murder, Doctor Hayward?
No.
But in this case, his tone suggests, he's considered the exception.
INT. SHERIFF'S RECEPTION AREA - DAY
DEPUTY ANDY BRENNAN fidgets in the reception area. Tries hard not to look like he's
waiting for someone. When Doc Hayward and Cooper enter, Andy nearly shouts.
Hey Doc!
How are you, Andy?
Fine. Great. Fine.
Andy's smile is false. A beat.
What the problem?
It's sort of personal.
I'm your doctor, Andy.
Andy hesitates. This is quite difficult for him. At last, almost in a whisper.
It's about my sperms test.
Yes ...?
You know ... I flunked.
#2.004
That's not the precise term for it ...
Well I was just wonderin' if it's the kind of test you can
take over, you know, like a driver's exam? I mean I've
been wearing boxer shorts every day like you told me -
You'd like to give it another shot.
Yes sir I would.
Well then I'll need a sample to take with me.
Hayward sifts through his Gladstone, hands Andy a small sample jar. Andy pales.
Right now?
Put it in a brown paper bag. I'll wait in the car.
Doc exits. Andy glances wildly about the reception room. No one's looking. He spots the
box full of "FLESH WORLD" magazines.
INT. SHERIFF'S STATION HALLWAY - DAY
Coming around a corner, Andy and LUCY MORAN nearly collide. She's lugging a
coffeemaker. He's toting a couple of FLESH WORLDS, which he promptly drops. Lucy
spots the pornography, then peers over Andy's shoulder, his destination beyond. The MEN'S
ROOM. Lucy shakes her head sadly and storms off Andy watches her vanish with a wince.
INT. RECEPTION - DAY
Truman and Cooper sit in reception with coffee, taking a breather. Cooper cases himself into
a chair with a grimace, as Truman runs down the day's business.
#2.004
Our judge is scheduled to arrive this afternoon. Clinton
Sternwood. Travels the circuit in a Winnebago.
Outdoors enthusiast?
Last of the frontiersmen. They broke the mold.
Bail hearing for Leland. Leo's competency examination.
That's the agenda. Does Leland get bail?
That's up to your state prosecutor.
Daryl Lodwick. Also on his way.
What do we hear from Hawk?
Called this morning. County says nobody by the name
of 'Robertson' ever lived next to the Palmers. Got a
forwarding address on the last occupants; Kalispell.
He'll check it by afternoon.
That's it.
Cooper sips his coffee.
5A. INT. HALLWAY - DAY
Andy exits the bathroom, holding a small paper bag. He hurries around the corner, bumps
into a coatrack and drops the bag. The bag opens and the sample rolls away down the hall,
coming to rest under a chair in reception. Andy hurries after it, diving past Cooper and
Truman to retrieve it. Cooper sees the bottom of Andy's new boots.
Andy, don't move -
Andy, where did you get those?
Revised 8-13-90, BLUE
#2.004
5A. CONTINUED:
Don't make me say where they came from.
Andy -
Please, Agent Cooper, this is extremely personal
business.
Your shoes.
Oh. I'm sorry. Phillip Gerard sold 'em to me
yesterday when he was waiting. Sorry.
These are the same brand of shoe we found at Leo
Johnson's. The giant said There was a clue out there.
I thought it was cocaine.
Harry, we've got to find Phillip Gerard.
Can I go now? Agent Cooper, I don't know how much
time I've got.
EXT. GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL - DAY
Establish.
INT. GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL LOBBY - DAY
BEN HORNE steps through the lobby. A DESK CLERK appears at his side.
Mr. Horne?
Revised 8-13-90, BLUE
6A.
#2.004
Walk with me and talk.
Okay, so this friend of mine works for the Seattle Post
Dispatch, actually my sister went to college with her,
but she's kind of a friend of mine too. Anyway she
called me this morning with a hot tip. Top secret.
M.T. Wentz is coming to Twin Peaks.
M.T. Wentz ... M.T. Wentz ...
#2.004
M.T. Wentz, the travel writer -
Yes. M.T. Wentz. The travel writer.
Wentz travels incognito, using only cash. No credit
cards, no way to trace his identity. Or hers. No one at
the paper even knows who he or she is.
A favorable Wentz review can spell big business.
He's coming, he's coming he's coming -
Keep an eye on registration. I want hourly updates.
Scrutinize every check-in -
Especially if they pay cash.
It's not even nine thirty and you've already done a good
day's work.
Ben turns on his heels, walks away without another word.
INT. BEN HORNE'S OFFICE - DAY
Ben enters his office, stops short. JEAN RENAULT sits on his desk, beside a portable
television set, complete with built-in video cassette player.
Mr. Horne. You look well.
What can I do for you?
#2.004
We've met. I sell 'insurance' to small businesses. Like
One-Eyed Jack's.
The mention catches Ben's attention. He closes the door behind him. Steps closer.
Jean Renault. What's the occasion? Are my premiums
about to be raised?
Renault produces a video tape, inserts it into the television. Presses PLAY. Ben stops
suddenly, pales: Audrey appears on screen, drugged, incoherent. Her wrists visibly bound.
You bastard.
Don't make a mistake, Mr. Horne. I'm just the
messenger.
For whom?
Renault shakes his index finger. He will dictate the terms of their discussion from this point
on. Renault FREEZE-FRAMES Audrey's image, continues:
There are terms. Would you like to hear them?
Yes.
They request a large sum of money -
How much?
I require something else, entirely.
They should bear the cost of their own middleman -
They can't give me what I want. Would you like to hear
what I want?
#2.004
Yes.
Number one your business up there is run by pickpockets
and fools. Every dollar earned, there's a dollar stolen.
Are you aware of that?
I have my suspicions.
What you need is a partner. Who could take care of your
little problem.
I already have a partner.
Okay. Do you want my help or not?
Yes. Yes.
One more thing.
Renault presses FAST-FORWARD on his remote. He stops the tape at a familiar image:
Cooper in tuxedo, seated at one of the casino's blackjack tables. Ben reacts to Cooper's image
with surprise, trepidation. What's Cooper doing in his casino?
I want this man to deliver the ransom.
Why? That man's a Federal agent.
Do you want your daughter back?
Of course, but I can't involve -
Cash. Partners. FBI man.
#2.004
That's supposed be an equitable exchange?
Jean smiles. He can't help but appreciate Ben's venality under pressure.
This could turn out well. I'll leave the video. It could
help clarify your thinking. Expect a call tomorrow.
Noon.
He exits. A long beat. And Ben steps to his desk, picks up the the phone, punches a button:
Janet, find Agent Cooper for me, please. It's urgent.
Revised; 8-13-90, BLUE
#2.004
INT. THE DOUBLE R DINER - DAY
HANK JENNINGS carries two covered Meals On Wheels trays from kitchen to counter.
DONNA HAYWARD waits to receive them.
You're looking real pretty today, Donna.
Thanks.
Special occasion?
Lunch with ... someone I met on my route.
Bed pans and shut-ins. Who's to meet?
You wouldn't understand.
Donna reacts to the slight with muted anger. As if to defend the absent Harold Smith. She
grabs the trays, heads for the door. HANK eyes her figure as she exits. NORMA JENNINGS
hurries into view, interrupts his reverie:
Hank, listen to this: Louie called from the Northern.
M.T. Wentz is coming to Twin Peaks.
Empty who?
Only the most powerful restaurant critic in the state. A
good review in a Seattle paper could mean a lot of
business. He's going to try and send him our way.
What's he look like?
#2.004
Nobody knows. It's a secret I guess. But he thinks he's
arriving today.
Then we've still got time.
For what?
I'll pick up some flowers, maybe some candles and
tableclothes - now what could we put on the menu, some
specials maybe -
I've always wanted to do some regional dishes -
Babe, we're gonna trick this joint out like Christmas in
July.
Hank grabs some cash from the register, gives Norma a kiss, steps toward the door. Norma
smiles, moved by his boyish enthusiasm. It's the man with whom she fell in love.
Oh, and I think you ought to give Big Ed a call.
Why?
You're still friendly, right? So maybe this Wentz fella
stops in for gas, suggest the Double R to any
new faces he sees.
I'll call him.
#2.004
Good. You do that.
For just an instant, almost imperceptibly, a chill passes through Hank's voice. Norma and Big
Ed. Hank leavens the latter with a smile, turns and steps out the door.
INT. HAROLD SMITH'S APARTMENT DAY
HAROLD SMITH carefully sets Donna's trays atop a blanket before her. He's turned his
living room into an indoor picnic; silverware and plates, he's even produced a wicker basket.
Donna watches, impressed.
How many agoraphobics do you know who own a picnic
basket?
Not too many, I guess.
Smith sits across from her, cross-legged, with a smile.
The food looks delicious. Thank you.
I wanted it to be special.
It is. Very. What am I thinking? We should have wine.
Smith leaps up, energized, he steps toward a door, opens it to reveal a wine rack inside.
Any requests?
Don't ask me. All the boys I know drink beer.
I'll select something appropriate. The Germans
practically invented picnic wine. Sprechen Sie Deutsch?
Parlez vous Francais?
#2.004
Of course; you speak a Romance language.
Smith opens the wine with subtle ceremony, pours a little into a glass for Donna to sample.
She looks at him, wonders. He nods, prompts. Donna takes a little sip.
Wow.
It's very good. Thanks.
Smith smiles, pours the rest. He holds up his glass.
What shall we drink to?
To Laura.
To Laura. In our hearts and memories.
They touch glasses. A spark passes between them. Smith reaches toward an end table, grasps
Laura's diary. The one Donna spotted there previously. Donna reacts. Smith looks at her; can
see the eager curiosity in her eyes.
Her diary. Did I tell you I had this?
Laura's diary?
Would you like me to read? It seems appropriate.
Please.
Smith turns through the diary, selects a page. He begins.
"But still I'm afraid to tell her of my fantasies and my
nightmares; sometimes she's good at understanding,
other times she just giggles, and I don't have the nerve to
ask why things like that are funny to her."
#2.004
Donna reacts. She knows exactly to whom Laura is referring. Smith continues:
"So I feel badly again and shut up about it for a long
time. I love Donna very much, but sometimes I worry
that she wouldn't be around me at tall if she knew what
my insides were like. Black and dark, and soaked with
dreams of big, big men and different ways they might
hold me and take me into their control ..."
Smith reads the latter without emotion, an even odder twist to Laura's musing. Donna
reacts, saddened, embarrassed somehow. She wants Smith to stop and he can see it.
Is something wrong?
I'm just thinking, I mean, isn't that evidence? Shouldn't
we give it to Sheriff Truman?
No.
I've read this from cover to cover, Donna. There are no
solutions here. Besides, she gave it it to me.
Why?
Safekeeping. Laura knew about my work.
I don't know anything about it.
No. You don't.
I'm a collector.
Smith rises, steps to a bookshelf.
Of what?
#2.004
Lives. People come to me and tell me their stories.
About the world outside. I take their stories and place
them in a ... larger context. A sort of living novel.
Who tells you?
Friends. Lovers
Maybe you will too, someday
Donna shivers. With a quiet thrill, some anticipation. And just a sliver of fear.
INT. BEN HORNE'S OFFICE - DAY
Cooper and Horne look at the small television/VCR on the desktop.
You were right. Her kidnappers contacted me this
morning. Damn me, but you were right.
I'll call the sheriff -
God no. They'll kill her at the first sign of police
involvement. That's why I called you.
That's no reason to circumvent normal channels.
Normal channels won't bring my daughter back alive.
#2.004
Ben turns to the small television, presses PLAY. Audrey's image appears on the screen.
Cooper stares at the screen with evident emotion. Ben's got him right where he wants him.
You and Audrey have a special relationship. You of all
people understand her value to me. They want to make
the exchange tomorrow. Audrey for one hundred and
twenty-five thousands dollars. Cash. But I must ask you;
will you take it there.
HOLD ON Cooper for a beat. Starring at Audrey, helpless on the video screen.
EXT. THE BLUE PINE LODGE - DAY
Establish.
THE BLUE PINE LODGE - DAY
START ON the kitchen door. Someone turns the knob, kicks it open. A figure steps inside,
face hidden by the absurd number of shopping bags, hatboxes, etc. that they are carrying.
ANOTHER ANGLE reveals s JOSIE PACKARD behind the boxes and bags. She sets the
loot down or the kitchen table. PETE MARTEL enters, sees her.
Josie.
They enter into a warm embrace.
Oh, Pete. I'm so sorry.
Me too.
I keep thinking about Andrew. What he would have
done about the fire. Thank goodness Catherine was here
to handle everything.
Pete's face falls. She doesn't know. Josie sees it.
What is it?
Revised 8-13-90 BLUE
#2.004
Josie, Catherine died in the fire.
Oh my God.
We're planning a service. They haven't found the body ...
Pete cannot continue. Josie pulls him back into their embrace. This time to heal. Or perhaps
to hide her own delight at Catherine's passing.
Oh, Pete.
In a couple days, we'll go ahead. I don't know exactly
what we'll bury.
I feel so guilty. Shopping in Seattle. Everyone must
have been wondering -
Harry'd sure liked to hear from you, I know that.
Yes. I'll call him.
And you got a strange message on the phone yesterday.
Man talked real quiet. Wouldn't give his name.
Did you write it down?
Didn't have to. It was so strange I remembered it. "In
1997 Hong Kong will be returned to the mainland."
What the heck do you suppose that was about?
I'm sure I don't know.
#2.004
INT. ONE-EYED JACK'S OFFICE - DAY
EMORY BATTIS roughly escorts Audrey into Blackie's office. Jean Renault sits at her desk.
Audrey tries to focus, look at the man before her. But she's weak, barely coherent.
C'mon, Dreamboat, daddy's waiting.
Emory shoves her down into a chair. Renault reacts with a frown.
Miss Home has been a very bad girl. Refusing to take
her medicine.
No more. Please.
Battis scoffs. But Renault surprises him.
Audrey, have you been mistreated?
Battis reacts. What the hell is this? Audrey pauses, then looks hard at Battis.
He hit me.
I did not hit her. If that's what you're thinking. I didn't.
That was wrong. It will never happen again. For as long
as you are with me. Do you understand?
I spoke to your father this morning. You're in no danger.
Everything's going to be fine. You do trust me, don't
you Audrey?
Renault's voice is hypnotically soothing. His concern seems genuine. Audrey feels safe
somehow. Battis steps back to Audrey, sits in a chair beside her. As if to rejoin the team.
You see, Audrey, in a situation like this, people have to
handle themselves in a professional manner. We're all
reasonable people. Something reasonable can be worked
out whenever reasonable people put their minds to it -
#2.004
Renault casually pulls out a silenced .38 and shoots Battis three times. A beat. Battis, quite
dead, and his chair, fall over backwards. Audrey recoils in horror. Renault holds her.
There, there. There, there.
HOLD ON Audrey for a beat. The nightmare begins again.
#2.004
INT. HAYWARD HOUSE - DAY
DOC HAYWARD sits on the sofa, on the phone, refers to some notes he's taken.
Ed, I just talked with the Saeger-Swenson Clinic in
Seattle. Nadine's problems might be related to
something called pheochromo crytoma; effects the
adrenal gland, it could account for her strength and, uh,
erratic behavior. I'll let you know.
As Doc is hanging up Donna a defiant descent of the stairs, hoping her father will notice
her. Takes out a cigarette and lights it.
I'd like to talk to you, Donna.
I gotta go.
Meeting James?
Writing a book?
Hayward points to a chair and Donna begrudgingly sits.
You missed two days of school last week. Without an
excuse.
I had ... I was busy.
Donna, we've always been able to talk. If there's
something going on you'd like to share with -
There's nothing going on -
I have to reluctantly admit I don't believe you - and
there've been other things as well, both your mother and
I are concerned -
#2.004
I don't know. Since Laura died everything's different -
You may feel that it is but -
Dad, I'm sorry, I can't talk about this right now -
I think it's very important that. we talk about it -
It doesn't have anything to do with you -
Donna, don't shut us out of your life -
I have to, I'm sorry -
Donna -
Donna puts her cigarette out and leaves. Pause. Doc empties the ashtray into a waste basket.
INT. RECEPTION AREA - DAY
Lucy is making coffee when Andy comes in. She gives him no focus. Cooper enters the
station behind them.
Lucy?
Lucy, we need to talk -
I thought you preferred the company of your
MAGAZINES!
Andy cowers. Her raised voice brings Truman out of the CONFERENCE ROOM. Lucy
slams coffee paraphenalia around.
#2.004
Andy, maybe you'd like to get some air.
Andy obediently steps outside.
Lucy, I think we're at the point where it would be
healthier for everyone if you got whatever was eating you
out in the open.
Andy and I used to go out.
That much I've gathered.
For a year and a half until I began to notice things about
him. They weren't big things. They were little things.
He never exercises. He never washes his car, and he
doesn't own a sports coat.
Uh-huh, and did you do something about this?
After watching a television show, I decided I needed
some "me" time, during which we didn't see each other,
during which period I met Dick Tremayne, Horne's
Department Store, Men's Fashions. He had many coats
and keeps himself and his car in good shape. Most of
his behavior was asinine, but at least he was different.
Are you still seeing this Dick?
No.
Do you want to get back with Andy?
I don't know.
Well, then Lucy, what exactly do you want?
Revised 8-13-90, BLUE
#2.004
I don't know!
Lucy ends in loud, protracted tears and wanders off. Cooper is completely stumped. Shrugs
to Truman. Truman shakes his head.
I was trying to help.
It's a nice thought. But it's like trying to fix the potholes
on Highway 9. One heavy rain ...
I see. You've been down this road before.
Truman nods. Cooper remembers something, checks the hallway for privacy.
Harry, I've got a dangerous situation. I've examined it
from every possible angle. Front to back, top to
bottom. And I believe there is only one way to proceed.
I'm asking a favor. Strictly between us.
What's up?
I need one of the Bookhouse Boys. Your best man. It
would be better if you didn't know why.
I've stayed clear when you asked me to and helped when
you needed it. But Coop, I've got to put my oar in here.
What do you mean?
You're not getting a little too personal with your work,
are you?
#2.004
Absolutely not.
Say no more. I'll set it up; nine-thirty at the Roadhouse?
Harry S. Truman, you're a citizen.
INT. DOUBLE R DINER - NIGHT
Norma and Hank are putting finishing touches on a cosmetic overhaul; tablecloths, candles
and flowers in every booth. Hank wears a starched shirt. A nondescript, portly MAN appears
at the diner door, briefcase in hand. Norma calls Hank attention to him.
Could be.
Here we go.
#2.004
Norma moves to him.
Good evening, sir, welcome to the Double R.
Thanks. Could I get a booth?
Right this way, please.
She leads him to a booth, he settles in, she hands him a menu.
I'll be back to tell you about the specials.
No need. I want a cheeseburger, medium, a coke and
some fries.
Very good.
The Man's back is to a PORTLY CUSTOMER in the booth behind him, sloppily and noisily
hoovering a hamburger, using his shirt for a napkin. Hank causally strolls past the Man, picks
up the Portly Customer's plate and takes him by the arm towards the kitchen.
Why don't we finish up in the kitchen.
Hank ushers him into the kitchen. OFF CAMERA a number of pots and pans crash. Hank
reemerges, meets Norma behind the counter, as Norma puts the order on the service wheel.
All he wanted was a cheeseburger.
Must be some sort of food critic trick.
The Man gets up and comes towards Hank and Norma. They smile nervously.
Bathroom?
Right this way, sir.
Revised 8-13-30, BLUE
#2.004
Hank shows him to the bathroom. On his way back, Hank straightens out some of the little
bouquets in each of the booths making his way to the "critic's" booth. The Man has left his
sports coat on the seat. Hank reaches in and TAKES OUT A WALLET.
Maddy sits and eyes the door. She's nervous. Donna enters, steps toward her. There is much
tension between them.
Hi.
Thanks for coming. I didn't know ...
Know what?
I didn't know if you were mad or not. How mad.
I'll survive.
Donna lights a cigarette. Maddy pauses. She's not used to Donna's tough-girl poses.
Donna, there's going on between me and James.
What if there is? I mean who said James and I couldn't
see other people? I certainly didn't.
Are you saying you're seeing someone?
Donna pauses to exhale a little smoke. She eyes Maddy for a moment. Then:
Maddy, I need your help.
How?
Harold Smith has Laura's diary.
Revised 8-13-90, BLUE
27A.
#2.004
But I thought the Sheriff has Laura's diary.
Harold says Laura had a second diary she never told me
about and he's got it.
God. We should tell James about this.
This has nothing to do with James,.
But he's been a part of this all along -
Revised 8-13-90, BLUE
#2.004
If Laura did have a secret diary and he's got it, I'm
going to get it. With or without your help.
Donna rises, exits without another word. Maddy sighs, watches her go. Donna steps past
Hank, behind the counter. He seizes a quiet moment to open the wallet. An identification
card inside reads:
Hank reacts; disappointment and opportunity.
INT. BLUE PINE LODGE - NIGHT
Josie models a new negligee. Truman sits stoically.
I know I paid too much for it, but I fell in love with
it ... I heard the salesman say, "The only reason we're still
in business is because Josie Packard buys retail."
It's nice.
Josie kisses him. Truman doesn't respond. She feels his check and then his hands.
You're so cold.
Josie, I have to ask you this ... were you really in Seattle?
Yes. Why are you so suspicious? Look at these boxes,
you think I got these at the Cash and Carry?
Besides, you know I had to get away. I was afraid.
Afraid of Catherine.
#2.004
You know why.
And now Catherine is dead.
She looks at him. Startled, almost amused.
Harry, you don't think I ...
I don't know what I think.
You think that I could bum the mill? That I would
deliberately ruin everything of mine?
There's insurance money.
Pause.
My God ... how could you? How could you think such
terrible things?. How could you hurt me so?
She turns away. Weeps quietly. Truman melts.
Josie ... Josie?
She turns back. He holds her. It complicates into a kiss, then passion.
I want you... I want you to take me.
They kiss again. Truman starts to lose himself.
Josie ...
Tear it. Tear it.
She bites his neck. He rips the back of her negligee. She gasps, trembling. He grabs her
violently by the shoulders.
#2.004
What do I mean to you?
I love you. I need you.
Don't play with me.
I want you.
She proves it. Truman slowly loses to his passion.
I want you ... more than my own life.
They kiss, without control. They roll over and over again until they are below a draped
window. The CAMERA MOVES UP the drapes. Behind the blinds in the kitchen, watching
and enjoying is Jonathan, the Asian Man.
#2.004
EXT. SHERIFF'S STATION - NIGHT
Establish.
INT. SHERIFF'S RECEPTION AREA - NIGHT
In walks His Honor CLINTON STERNWOOD, early sixites, tall, rough-hewn, ramrod
straight, in Western wear. Sees Lucy in the kitchenette.
Say good lookin', who do you have to grease to get a
cup of coffee around here?
Judge Sternwood, hello Your Honor.
Lucy, you're a cool drink of water to road-weary eyes.
What is your secret?
I'd rather not talk about it sir.
Give us a hug.
Life is hard, dear.
Still and all, harder in most places than Twin Peaks.
Truman enters the station.
Clinton, sorry I'm late -
I've only just arrived. What's her name, Harry?
What?
#2.004
You've got the look of a man with filly trouble, son. If
she won't take the saddle you've got two options. I
won't bore you with either one of 'em -
Cooper enters from Truman's office.
Judge Clinton Sternwood, this is Dale Cooper, FBI.
Your Honor.
How are you, lad?
You two should have a lot in common.
Lucy hands Sternwood a coffee.
Thank you, dear. Harry, break the seal on that bottle of
Irish you've got stashed for me and let's put our feet up.
Sid'll bring in the calender soon as the Winnebago's
tanked up.
Mr. Cooper, how do you find our little corner of the
world?
Heaven, sir.
This week heaven includes arson, multiple homicides
and an attempt on the life of a federal agent.
Heaven's a large and interesting place.
Let's hope so, son. Harry, where's that bottle?
They're inside. We stay with LUCY, as she returns to her post. The door opens, RICHARD
TREYMAYNE enters, raincoated, romantic and rushed.
#2.004
Lucy ...
Dick?
Lucy, I haven't slept, I can't eat, I've been absolutely
miserable
You have?
I've been a fool, a cad, the way I've behaved. I am
deeply, deeply ashamed.
You are?
I must have been over it in my mind a million times and
what I've come to is this: I have to, no, I must ... do the
right thing.
You must?
It's everything I could scrape together, dear. I am
completely knackered.
Lucy looks in the envelope. Cash.
What is this?
Six hundred and fifty. I, uh, called around. I'm told
this should be more than adequate.
For what?
For the ... to take care of the ... you know ...
Revised 8-13-90, BLUE
#2.004
... little problem.
Richard, here's what you're going to do ...
Take your money, put it back in your pocket or your
wallet, turn right, step through both sets of doors, the
second ones stick sometimes, go out to the parking lot,
get into your car, turn the key - AND NEVER SPEAK
TO ME AGAIN FOR AS LONG AS YOU LIVE.
Say one more word I'm going to scream. Leave, please.
I -
She fiercely puts her fingers to her lips and closes her eyes. He slinks out. She goes into
Truman's office and closes the door, from where we can hear muffled sobs. Moments later,
Andy appears in the corridor, leading a handcuffed Leland. They pass by the office. Andy
hears Lucy. They proceed to the conference room.
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - NIGHT
Truman, Cooper and Sternwood, as Andy enters with Leland.
Judge Sternwood.
Leland ... take those cuffs off him please, Deputy ...
Leland, this is most difficult. My deepest condolances
for your heartbreaking loss.
Thank you, sir.
You've appeared before me many times. I know you to
be a fine and decent man and a capable attorney. To see
you under these circumstances is dreadful for us all. The
law provides a structure to guide us through perilous and
trying times; but it requires our submission to its
Pages 35 - 37 missing
#2.004
Peter, this is my cousin, Jonathan.
Pleasure to meet you, Jonathan.
Thank you, Mr. Pete. Josie has told so much about you.
So you've come over to visit us from Hong Kong.
Yes. Hong Kong.
Josie tells me you run the best little fish market in town.
I don't know. Very competitive.
I'm afraid cousin is in need of some good old American
how-now.
That's know-how, all you need, Jon, is a good contact
here can air cargo you some King salmon, fresh, daily.
Run those other rascals right out of business.
Jonathan laughs, smiles shyly, toes the carpet.
Pete, could cousin have some joe? After his long flight
it will help him reset his biographical clock.
Biological. Cup 'a joe, coming right up.
Pete exits. Jonathan drops the act. His voice is lower; accent Brtisih, clipped, urbane.
I don't know how you've lasted six years. Nothing but
hayseeds and manual laborers.
#2.004
We all have our job to do.
Yours is nearly finished. The sale of the mill and the
Packard lands?
Signing contracts soon. I need Pete's signature. He's
Catherine's heir.
Will that be difficult?
No.
How long?
Two days.
We're expected back in Hong Kong.
Mr. Eckhardt wants very much to see you.
Are there any other ... complications?
There may be a problem with Hank.
I'll deal with him. Are we suspected?
Certainly not.
What about this sheriff?
He means nothing to me.
#2.004
That's not what I asked you.
Pete returns with some coffee. Josie and Jonathan resume their roles.
Here we go, fresh pot. Help yourself to cream and sugar.
Thank you, Mr. Pete.
And I can promise you, it hasn't been anywhere near a
fish.
(a blank look from Jonathan; Pete and Josie
smile)
Private joke.
EXT. ROADHOUSE - NIGHT
Establish.
INT. ROADHOUSE - NIGHT
Cooper sits at the bar by himself. He checks his watch. Nine-thirty. Swivels on his seat one
way. When he swivels back the other way, Harry Truman's sitting next to him, out of
uniform.
Just about nine-thirty.
Is he here?
He's here.
Cooper snaps his fingers and points at Truman.
We in any particular hurry?
Harry ... let me buy you a beer.
#2.004
INT. DOUBLE R DINER - NIGHT
The darkened interior of the diner after hours. A doorbell is HEARD. A beat. Hank Jennings
steps into the room wearing sweats, a sleepy expression, turns on an interior light, opens the
front door. Nobody's there. Mutters, turns off the lights, and heads back to bed.
A beat. And the doorbell RINGS a second time. A quiet noise is heard. And appliance
lights, dim illumination, go dark in the shadows.
HANK'S VOICE
What the ...?
Hank Jennings stumbles back into view. He tries the light switch. But this time nothing. The
room remains dark. Hank fumbles through a drawer, produces a flashlight. He turns it on.
Suddenly: the beam reveals Jonathan, the Asian Man. Hank reacts with surprise. He keeps
the beam trained on the Asian Man's face, as if to blind him.
Okay. What's the deal? What do you want?
Hank makes his move. He swings the heavy flashlight at the Asian Man's head. But the Asian
Man dodges the weapon with ease, catches Hank at the elbow, directs him forward, crashing
into tables and chairs. The flashlight rolls on the floor, Hank retrieves it, gets to his feet
and aims a high kick at the Asian Man's head. It's a glancing blow, but enough to knock the
man off-balance.
Hank attacks, the Asian man avoids his rush, sends him flying into a large refrigerator. Hank
gasps, regroups. And charges again. This time the Asian Man plows a fist into his midsection,
adds a blow to the back of Hank's neck. Hank lies still on the floor, huffs and puffs.
Listen, I'm just gonna ... lie here for a while.
The Asian Man kneels, retrieves the flashlight, aims it at him, steps toward Hank. Silent.
What? What?
The Asian Man stands over Hank, the flashlight aimed at his eyes. Hank puts up his arms to
defend. But the Asian Man simply grabs him by the hand, brings their thumbs together - a
bloodless approximation of Hank and Josie's partner ritual.
Bloodbrother. Next time I'll take off your head.
He smashes the flashlight against a counter.