EXT. GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL - NIGHT
Establish.
INT. GREAT NORTHERN CORRIDOR - NIGHT
Looking through the open door into Cooper's room. COOPER lies still on the floor, flat on
his back at the foot of the bed.
Looking down the corridor, here comes a ROOM SERVICE WAITER, carrying a glass of
warm milk on a tray. He stops at the open doorway, sees Cooper, knocks.
Room service.
No response. He enters cautiously.
Cooper's eyes open. He looks up as the Waiter, who is no scholar.
How you doin' down there?
Cooper blinks a few times, dazed and disoriented. Pause.
Warm milk.
He proudly holds up the glass.
Could you ... put it on the table?
Sure.
The Waiter gingerly steps around him and sets the glass of milk down on the table beside the
phone receiver, from where he hears ...
ANDY'S VOICE
Hello? ... Agent Cooper? ... Agent Cooper?
The Waiter looks down at Cooper, then decides to helpfully hang up the receiver.
Hung it up for you.
What's that?
Hung it up. The phone.
Oh.
Thank you.
No problem.
The Waiter stands in front of him, holding the bill, takes out a pen. Cooper's attention drifts
off him, drifts back.
Yes?
The Waiter holds out the bill and pen. Cooper takes them, holds them above his chest, trying
to focus
Does this include a gratuity?
Yes sir.
Cooper scrawls a signature. The Waiter takes back the bill and pen.
That milk'll cool down on ya'.
The Waiter smiles, backs up to the door, stops, grins, points a finger. He's figured it out.
I heard about you.
Cooper looks at him. The Waiter grins again, gives a small wave and a wink and moves off.
We hear his footsteps move do, the coorridor. They stop. Slower footsteps come back.
The Waiter peeks around the corner, looks at Cooper again, grins, shakes his head and
moves off. The footsteps recede.
001 Revised 7-24-90, YELLOW
Cooper takes a cautious deep breath. He closes his eyes, wincing in pain. He turns his head
towards the bed, opens his eyes and slowly realizes that, looming above him, a GIANT is
sitting on the foot of the bed looking down at him.
The Giant appears to be at least eight feet tall. He's wearing dark pants, a white shirt rolled
up at the sleeves and a slender black tie.
I will tell you three things.
If I tell them to you, and they come true, then will you
believe me?
Who are you?
Think of me as a friend.
Where did you come from?
The question is: where have you gone?
Cooper blinks, ponders.
The first thing I will tell you is: "The man in the
smiling bag."
"Smiling bag."
The second thing is: "The owls are not what you think."
Cooper repeats the words, clinging to them.
The third thing is: "He points without the proper chemical."
Cooper repeats the phrase to himself.
001 Revised 7-24-90, YELLOW
What, what does this mean?
This is all I am permitted to say. If you find these
things to be true, I will visit you again. We want to help
you.
Who's "we?"
One last thing: Leo locked inside a hungry horse. By the
way, you will require medical attention.
Cooper looks down at his shirt. A bloodstain is slowly spreading across his midsection. He
looks back. The Giant is gone. Cooper doesn't move.
Holy jumpin' George.
EXT. ONE-EYED JACK'S - NIGHT
Establish. Off the One-Eyed sign ...
INT. ONE-EYED JACK'S BEDROOM NIGHT
CLOSE on AUDREY'S eye, peering out from between the curtains, draped around the
fourposter in her room. Audrey stands on the bed. There are two masks on the wall above
the headboard.
BEN HORNE enters the room, sees movement behind the curtains.
Knock, knock.
Knock. Knock.
Who's there?
The big bad wolf.
Go away.
Interesting.
Come on, let's have a look at you.
I'm shy.
Didn't you know? Everybody's shy. Here at One-Eyed
Jack's it's a transitory condition. And an occupational
handicap.
He tries to pry the curtain apart for a look, she snaps it shut. He takes out a cigar; having
been through this before, he falls back on technique.
But, consider; your first night in a new place, new
surroundings, new people -
New wardrobe -
- naturally you are full of questions, anxieties. You're
wondering "What's expected of me? how will I be
received? will they ... like me?" I'm right, aren't I?
Yes.
Ben patrols the perimeter, toying with the curtains, as she moves with him, defending her
translucent barrier, trying to anticipate his angle of attack.
Let's examine these feelings, shall we? What are they if
not the natural emotional processes of any living,
breathing person who finds herself thrust ... into new
circumstances?
Could you repeat the question?
You're nervous, you're shy, you're frightened: of course
you are...
How exactly new to all this are you?
You might say ... brand new.
Really.
For instance, if I was a bar of soap, I'd still be wrapped
in my package.
Alright' fine, now I have to see you ...
He puts his cigar in his mouth, tries to open the curtain again; she thwarts him. He thrusts a
hand inside. She slaps it away.
A vixen! What's your name?
Queen of Diamonds.
No, no, no, your real name.
I'm not supposed to tell.
Did they tell you who I was?
The owner?
That's right. Tell me your name.
You wouldn't believe me.
I'm a liberal thinker.
Prudence.
Prudence!
I think you should go.
Do you, Prudence?
Yes I do. I really do.
All right.
She listens cautiously. Ben walks to the door, opens and closes it, tiptoes back into the room,
towards the bed. He triumphantly throws the curtains open.
'Got you!
She's hiding under the covers, a conspicuous lump. Ben advances.
I'll huff ... and I'll puff ... and I'll blow your house
down!
He yanks the covers away. She's revealed: a mask covers her features.
Aren't you ... something?
He advances further. She retreats. He reaches for her, she slaps his hands away, grabs a
pillow and whacks him across the head. He laughs. She's backed against the wall. He reaches
for her mask.
Please ... I have to ... see you ...
His hand reaches the mask. An urgent knock at the door. Ben hesitates. Another knock.
JERRY HORNE'S VOICE
Ben, it's Jer! Brother Ben, we've got a situation!
So have I.
JERRY HORNE'S VOICE
Ben, it's the M-I-L-L! And we got a big S-N-A-G!
Ring a bell?
Alas, I do have a situation.
Gee, that's too bad.
I like you. You know how to interest a man. That's half
the battle. You've got quite a future in front of you.
That's what everyone keeps telling me.
JERRY'S VOICE
Ben, I'm gonna count to three -
Coming, Jer!
Prudence, I'm leaving now, but I'm going to get myself
back up here to see you right away. And next time we'll
play a different game. I'll make the rules. A fun game.
You'll like it. Everybody wins.
He drops some money the table, blows her a kiss and blows out of the room.
Audrey lowers the mask. She's laughing silently, tears running down her face, close to the
edge.
INT. BLACKIE'S OFFICE - NIGHT
Ben and Jerry enter Blackie's office. BLACKIE sits behind her desk, looking worn and
haggard. She has the shakes.
How many blips are we dealing with?
Two blips: blip number one, they contained the fire in
the drying sheds -
It didn't spread to the processing plant?
Just the plywood building, not the main plant.
Manageable. What's blip number two?
Leo the Lip's in the hospital -
As in morgue?
That's a big N-O.
Ben chews on that. Turns to Blackie.
Keep an eye on that new girl. She didn't come across.
This sounds like a job for Jerry Horne -
Taking off his coat, Jerry starts for the door. Ben grabs him by the collar.
Blackie, you're looking a little the worse for wear ...
She shoots him a poisonous look. He takes a packet from his pocket.
Would you like to fix yourself a cocktail? Or would
you rather just say "no?"
Bastard.
What's that, Blackie?
Please.
And you used to be so pretty.
Ben signals to Jerry, who exits. Ben moves to the door.
PLEASE.
Pretty ... please
Ben tosses the packet onto the desk, shakes his head and exits. Blackie looks at the packet,
opens a drawer [plus other drug paraphenalia], takes out a length of rubber tubing and sets
it on the desk.
EXT. BURNED MILL - DAWN
Establish. Fire trucks and paramedics dealing with the fire's aftermath.
INT. MILL - DAWN
Details of the ravaged interior. A scorched moose head on a wall. A ruined office. Water
and ash dripping into a tea cup. A blackened fire extinguisher,
EXT. MILL - DAWN
PARAMEDICS wheel PETE MARTELL out of the mill, his face covered with an oxygen
mask.
They load Pete, into the back of an ambulance. SHELLY JOHNSON is already inside on
another gurney, also taking oxygen. SHERIFF TRUMAN stands by the ambulance doors.
Pete takes Truman's hand, partially lifts off his mask.
Catherine?
Not yet, Pete.
They look at each other. Pete coughs, they readjust his mask, slide the gurney in, close the
doors. The siren starts up, the ambulance drives off.
Truman moves away and is joined by DEPUTY HAWK
Josie's not at Blue Pine, she's not at the office -
Keep looking.
Harry, we've looked everywhere -
Keep looking.
DEPUTY ANDY lopes up to them.
Andy, where the hell is Cooper?
It's the strangest thing, I was talking to him and he put
the phone down and walked away and it sounded like
somebody was banging real loud on the door -
And?
And then I heard a sound like somebody falling down
and then about a minute went by and somebody hung up the
phone.
Hawk and Truman look at each other.
INT. COOPER'S ROOM - DAWN
Cooper's hand reaches out for his tape recorder on the floor not far from where he's lying.
His fingertips reach it, gain purchase and drag it back to him. In pain and slightly fumble-
fingered he's able to activate the record button, lie back and bring the recorder to his mouth.
Diane, it's - I don't know what time it is, Diane, I've
been shot. I was out for a while and I can't reach my
watch. The sky's getting light, I can hear birdsong. I'm
lying on the floor of my room. There is a great deal of
pain and a fair amount of blood. I seem to remember
three shots, all to the midsection. I was wearing my vest
last night, per Bureau regulations when undercover, but
even so, if you can imagine someone dropping three
bowling balls on your chest from a height of about nine
feet you might begin to approximate the sensation.
On balance, though, being shot is not as bad as I had
always imagined it might be. If you can manage to
keep the fear from your mind. Then again, I suppose
you could say that about almost anything in life: it's not
so bad if you can keep the fear from your mind.
At a time like this, curiously, you immediately think of
the things you regret, or the things you would miss. I
would like, in general, to treat people with much more
care and respect. I would like to climb a tall hill, sit in
the cool grass and feel the sun on my face. I wish I could
have cracked the Lindbergh kidnapping. I would very
much like to make love to a beautiful woman who I had
genuine affection for. I would like that very much.
All in all, a very interesting experience.
SOUND of running footsteps. Truman, Hawk and Andy appear in the doorway.
Ah. They're here.
EXT. CALHOUN MEMORIAL HOSPITAL - DAY
Establish.
INT. CALHOUN HOSPITAL INTENSIVE CARE - DAY
CAMERA MOVES slowly past a row of charts hanging on hooks at a nurse's station: we read
the names on the charts:
... Pulaski, Ronnette; Jacoby, Lawrence; Hurley, Nadine; Johnson, Shelly; Martell, Pete;
Johnson, Leo ...
A NURSE takes a seventh unmarked chart; off the last hook and CAMERA MOVES with her
picking up staying with an extremely tired DOC HAYWARD sitting in a chair. She hands
the chart to Hayward. He rises and together they move into an adjoining room ...
INT. INTENSIVE CARE DAY
Hayward and the Nurse enter. Cooper is seated on an examining table. Another NURSE is
cutting away his shirt; revealing his bulletproof vest. Truman stands nearby.
Morning, Doc.
My God, what happened to you?
Three slugs, point blank range.
You can't remember anything about the shooter.
All I saw was that muzzle flash and the next thing I knew
I was drifting on Cloud Nine - busy night, Doc?
Haven't seen this much action since the Elks Club fire in
'59 - here we go ...
Doc and the Nurse ease the bloodstained vest off Cooper. He groans. Large ugly bruises are
revealed. LUCY enters with a clipboard, thermos of coffee and some mugs, just in time to see
the bruises.
Oh boy ...
A little woozy, Truman helps her to a chair.
Easy there, Luce.
Oh boy ...
One of the Nurses partially closes the curtain between the bed and where Lucy is sitting. Lucy
pours herself a cup of coffee.
Looks worse than it feels Lucy.
Let's have you lie back.
Hayward and a Nurse help Cooper lie back. We see there's a bullet partially embedded in his
midsection near a rib.
Doc, I think I picked up a wood tick last night. While
trying to scratch it off I adjusted my vest upwards and I
think one shot glanced off the edge of my vest.
Agent Cooper, I'd have to say you're lucky to be alive.
I try to tell myself that at least once a day.
Coffee?
You bet.
Lucy, Agent Cooper needs to be brought up to date.
Okay.
Cooper, I'm working on a warrant for Leo. Arrest and search
Truman exits. Hayward is prepping to remove the bullet from Cooper's side.
Go ahead, Lucy.
Okay.
I ought to administer an anesthetic.
No, just hand me my wallet and say when.
Puzzled, Doc nods to a Nurse, who hands Cooper his wallet.
This morning, at around 5:45 a.m. Jacques Renault was
found dead in his bed. It appears to be cardiac arrest,
which is what happened to my Uncle Walter after he had
the accident with the lawnmower, but the cause of death
is not yet officially known.
Autopsy?
Soon as we get a minute.
Please continue, Lucy.
Cooper watches as Hayward lays out a row of severe looking surgical instruments,
including a wicked pliar-like utensil.
Doctor Jacoby is resting comfortably after his heart
attack, and Ronnette Pulaski is still on life support,
which the Sheriff told me you already knew about but
that I should remind you.
Thank you.
You might be able to question Jacoby later today.
Shelly Johnson and Pete Martell are in stable condition
after they were found inside the mill, which caught fire
and burned down, at least a part of it did not the whole
mill which is lucky because they had all that lumber
inside -
A few second-degree burns, smoke inhalation -
Smoke inhalation, in addition to which I think Shelly is
a smoker anyway.
Doc and Cooper look at each other.
Nadine Hurley is still unconscious and in serious
condition because of an overdose of sleeping pills.
Accidental?
Ed says she left a note.
Damn.
Ready, Cooper?
Keep talking, Lucy.
Cooper puts the wallet in his mouth and bites down hard. Hayward picks up the pliars and
goes to work.
Leo Johnson was found in his house by Deputy Brennan
with a single gunshot wound to his upper chest. There
appears to be a spinal injury associated with this wound,
he's just out of surgery an at this time is still
unconscious and in critical condition -
Hayward, who's been working vigorously, pulls hard, the bullet comes out and Cooper lets
out a yell. Hayward examines the bullet. We see the leg's of a dead tick attached to the end.
Hell of a way to kill a tick.
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY
Truman looks in on ED HURLEY, sitting by the bedside of the unconscious NADINE,
holding her hand, watching her with fear and devotion, trying to will her back. Truman
respectfully withdraws before Ed realizes he's there.
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY
Truman enters another room, where a NURSE is tending to Shelly, lying quietly in bed, pale,
exhausted, coughing gently every now and then. Truman nods to the Nurse, who exits.
Truman sits by the edge of the bed. Shelly manages a weak smile.
Hi Shelly.
Hi. Hope you don't mind if I don't get you coffee.
Leo know I'm here?
Shelly ...
What? What?
Leo was shot last night. He's here in the hospital.
Oh my God ...
It's bad. You should know there's a chance he may not
make it.
Oh my God, what happened?
We don't know. We found him at your house about an
hour ago.
At our house?
Truman nods. Shelly's thinking, eyes darting around, exploring the possibilities.
Shelly ... we're gonna need to ask you some questions.
Can you tell me what you were doing at the mill?
Tears come to Shelly's eyes.
Would it be okay if maybe ... we could talk a little
later? It's just ... you know, with Leo ...
She starts to cry. Truman pats her on the shoulder.
I understand. You rest up for a while. I'll be back to see
you.
Thanks, Sheriff.
Truman rises, exits. Shelly tries to put the pieces together.
Bobby ... Bobby, help me ...
INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY
Truman exits Shelly's room, sees Ed coming out of Nadine's room. They approach. Ed
shrugs, a heartbreaking look of helplessness. Truman gives him a hug.
I'm sorry.
She's always been a fighter. I'm betting on her.
I'd lay money on that myself.
I should have been with her. This wouldn't've happened.
You can't blame yourself.
But I do, you see. That's the whole problem.
Have you seen James? He ought'a know, I've been trying
to get hold of him.
Truman decides not to complicate Ed's emotional state.
Let me take care of that for you.
Thanks, Harry.
She knows I'm there. She squeezes my hand when I talk
to her. She can hear me.
'Course she can, Ed. You stay with her. You'll bring her
back.
Ed pats him on the back, nods, goes back in, as Truman moves off.
Cooper, walking stiffly, putting on his shirt, is exiting his room further down the corridor,
pursued by a distraught Hayward and a confused Lucy.
- I want to be very clear this is completely against my
recommendation -
Thanks, Doc, duly noted -
You've lost some blood, you've got two cracked ribs,
some torn cartiledge and possibly a bruised lung -
Lucy, maybe you could run down to the pharmacy and
pick me up a large bottle of aspirin - Doc, when the
will is firmly invoked the recuperative powers of the
physical body are simply extraordinary -
Harry, I want to go on record, this man should be in a
hospital.
I hear you, Doc -
We're ready to give Leo's house a top to bottom.
Good, let's get to work.
I guess we can't formally arrest him until he's conscious.
Correct. Put a guard on his door, zip up the exits,
nothing leaks to the press until we've finished the search.
Cooper stops. Ahead of them, being wheeled out of a room and down the hall by two
[ORDERLIES] is a gurney holding a huge figure in a large rubber body bag.
What's that?
That's Jacques.
"Shock in a big rubber bag."
Excuse me?
Tell you later. Come on, Harry, we've got work to do:
the attempted murder of a federal agent is an extremely
serious crime and it barely cracks our top five.
Cooper moves off, a pained, awakward gait. Hayward and Truman look at each other.
Truman shrugs and starts after Cooper.
Harry, if you don't mind, you're going to have to do
most of the driving.
As they round the corner, we move to look down a long, empty corridor. We move down it
slowly.
15A. INT. HOSPITAL ROOM
We move in on RONETTE PULASKI, lying in bed, hooked up to life support. As we get
closer, she moves in a way that indicates she's coming out of the coma.
EXT. PALMER HOUSE - DAY
Establish.
INT. PALMER LIVING ROOM - DAY
SARAH PALMER and MADDY FERGUSON are having coffee both lost in private
thought. Pause.
I had the strangest dream last night.
About Laura?
I'm not sure. Maybe. I was in a desert. It was hot and
dry. There was some kind of animal with me, I
couldn't see it but I could feel it breathing on me.
What kind of animal?
A big cat. I think it was gray. I could see its eyes,
yellow and red. Then we were in the woods. It was very
dark. I woke up and the window was open. There was a
cold wind blowing through the room.
From the other room, loud robust singing approaches.
LELAND'S VOICE
"Oh, marsey-doats and dosesy-doats and little lambs
eat ivy/A kiddlede ivy too, wouldn't you? ... marsey-
doats and dosesy-doats and little lambs eat ivy/A
kiddledeet ivy too, wouldn't you? ... "
LELAND PALMER enters the room, well dressed in a three-piece buisness suit, carrying his
briefcase. He continues to sing, happy and good-natured, genuinely trying to entertain the
two women. His hair has turned completely white.
"Now if the words sound queer and funny to your ear/
A little bit jumpled and jivey ...
Say 'Mares eat oats and does eat oats, and little lambs
eat ivy' ...
He kisses them both, grabs his hat, kind of flips it onto his head, picks up an umbrella and
exits, still singing ...
"Oh, marsey-doats; and dosesy-doats; and little lambs
eat ivy/A kiddledeet ivy too, wouldn't you? ... marsey-
doats and dosesy-doats and little lambs eat ivy/A
kiddledeet ivy too, wouldn't you?
Sarah and Maddy look at each other.
EXT. GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL - DAY
Establish.
INT. BEN HORNE'S OFFICE - DAY
On a television set in the corner, featuring a news story about the burning mill. SOUND of
half-spirited Icelander singing from the hall outside. Ben and Jerry appear in the hallway, turn
and speak back to the Icelanders in the hall.
Travel safely, Einer; (Icelandic phrase): next year in
Rekyavik!
Ben pulls Jerry into the office, closes the door and barks instructions.
On the bus, on the runway, right up to the plane; no
television, no newspapers and make sure the pilot
doesn't fly over the mill, until their check clears as far as
they're concerned that fire never happened.
What fire?
Ben gives him a friendly slap on the cheek.
Agenda: let's get a location on Catherine, keep our
distance, We just want to be sure she's ready to take the
fall, I want a complete medical on Leo Johnson's
prospects for recovery and a satisfying explanation from
Hank Jennings why that punk [LEO] isn't being measured for a
plot at Ghostwood Memorial Park.
Well begun is half done.
The SOUND of the Icelanders is interrupted by the approaching sound of Leland singing
"Mare-se-doats." The doors open as he finishes the chorus. Leland spreads his
arms, a happy smile on his face, his white hair standing up like a field of albino wheat.
I'm back!
Ben and Jerry stare at him for a long time.
EXT. LEO JOHNSON'S HOUSE - DAY
A lot of police vehicles parked outside.
INT. LEO JOHNSON'S HOUSE - DAY
Full-scale forensics going on in the living room; technicians measuring the trajectory the
bullet took through the broken window. Truman examines the bite Leo's axe took out of the
wall. Hawk comes out of the bedroom with a small box containing some skin mags,
including a few back issues of Flesh World, takes them to Cooper, seated stiffly on a chair in
the middle of the room. We see two PLAINCLOTHES COPS are carefully dismantling the
kitchen in a thorough search.
Surprise; Flesh World.
Good customers must get complimentary subscriptions.
Still no cocaine, here or in the truck.
We may have to bring in the dogs. Let's get those down
to the station.
I can't figure it; some kind of fight was going on in here.
Well they weren't doing the Tennessee waltz.
But the shot came from outside.
He wasn't shot by the person he was fighting with.
Two people.
Leo was trying to turn somebody to kindling. The
person went down and hit that television; the legs were
moved off the depressions in the carpet. Leo advanced,
axe raised, the shot knocked him back onto the couch.
Shelly?
Shelly's about ninety-nine pounds soaking wet; that's a
big old television.
Was she the shooter?
That depends on when she got to the mill.
Truman nods.
EXT. LEO JOHNSON'S - DAY
Deputy Andy is working the perimeter outside. He looks up to see a government issue car
roar up nearby and stop in a cloud of dust. AGENT ALBERT ROSENFIELD and his two
ASISSTANTS climb out of the car. Andy immediately turns and runs to the house.
INT. LEO JOHNSON'S PORCH - DAY
Andy enters and starts for the door.
Harry! Harry! It's Agent Rosenflower!
Andy steps on a loose plank levers up like a shot and WHACKS him in the face. He goes
down. Truman comes out onto the porch from the kitchen, just as Albert enters through the
outside door. They stare at each other. Andy moans quietly. Albert looks at him.
Another great moment in law enforcement history.
The plank Andy dislodged reveals a cavity under the porch, which Truman is the first to
notice. He kneels down to take a look ...
INSERT - THE PORCH CAVITY
Secreted inside is Leo's stash, prominently featuring a couple of kilo bricks of cocaine.
As he looks back up at Albert.
Albert, I guess you were more right than you know.
Good work, Andy.
His nose bleeding, Andy manages a cockeyed grin.
EXT. DINER - DAY
Establish.
INT. DINER KITCHEN - DAY
A small bottle of ammonia or some like chemical is opened. HANK JENNINGS lets the
fumes from the bottle drift up into his face. He inhales, his eyes redden and start to rear. He
replaces the bottle top and hides the bottle as NORMA JENNINGS enters the kitchen.
She's not in uniform this morning.
Hank lets her catch a glimpse of him before turning away.
Hank?
Hank grabs a broom and starts to sweep up, trying to hide his "tears."
Yeah. Hi.
What is it?
Nuthin'. Fine.
She regards him, trust still an issue but today perhaps slightly more on the fence.
Uh-huh.
I can't stop thinking of little Shelly in that burning mill
... and then as if that's not bad enough, she comes out of
it to find Leo's been shot? I don't know. I mean I've
done some rotten things in my life, I don't pretend to be
any saint, I've paid for it, but why do bad things happen
to good people? It just ... doesn't seem fair.
Anyway ...
I'm just on my way over to see her.
Yeah, listen, I was gonna send her some flowers
Maybe you could ...
She takes the money.
That's a nice thought.
Sometimes I guess it is the thought that counts.
She'll get through this. She's tougher than she looks.
Yeah. Kind'a reminds me of somebody.
A wistful grin for her benefit. She half-smiles, pockets the money, starts out.
She likes snapdragons.
INT. DINER - DAY
Norma busies herself behind the counter for a moment. Behind her DONNA HAYWARD
enters the diner, wearing sunglasses, spots Maddy Ferguson sitting at the counter, moves to
her and together they move to a booth, maintaining a conspiritorial tone.
Is it true about James?
He spent the night in jail.
Do you think it's because of what we did?
Look, we don't know if we "did" anything. My dad
says Dr. Jacoby got sick because he was attacked; all we
did was send him a tape.
Maybe he wouldn't have been attacked if we hadn't.
Maybe. Maybe the sun won't come up tomorrow if we
wash our hair. Think like that you could go crazy.
What's done is done. The only way this won't came
back to haunt us is if we keep quiet about what happened
last night, because I can promise you that's what James is
doing. Get the picture?
Loud and clear.
I don't know why they're holding James, I'll try to find
out. In the meantime, mum is the word.
I heard they caught Laura's killer.
If that's true why haven't they made an announcement?
That's what Uncle Leland said this morning -
Did they come to your house? Did you see it on the
news?
No -
Then until that happens we still have work to do.
Uncle Leland's hair turned white.
Really?
White as a sheet.
That's weird.
Norma sees them.
Oh, Donna,. I've got something for you here.
She takes an envelope out from under the counter and moves to the booth.
This came in the mail for you yesterday.
Thanks, Norma.
She looks at it.
Adddressed to "Donna Hayward, c/o Norma Jennings, Double R Diner"
That's odd.
As Donna examines it, Norma nods, moves off, exits the diner.
What is it?
Donna shrugs, opens the envelope, finds a note inside, printed in block letters.
It reads: LOOK INTO THE MEALS ON WHEELS.
INT. ONE-EYED JACK'S BEDROOM - DAY
Audrey, alone in her room, sprawled on the bed playing solitaire. She hums. She cheats.
A knock at the door. A FIFTY-TWO PICK-UP GIRL enters.
Say, when do they put on the feedbag around here? I
could eat a bear.
PICK-UP
Kitchen's open twenty-four hours a day.
Yeah? My door isn't. There's no doorknob on my side.
PICK-UP
That's for security.
Whose security?
PICK-UP
All the new girls get this room at first.
All of them?
PICK-UP
Until they trust you.
Then what happens?
The Girl likes her and is friendly, but is also clearly operating under some other instructions.
PICK-UP
Keep asking so many questions and you'll never find out.
They don't like you asking questions?
The Girl gestures to be quiet, nods, points to a small screen in the wall; a speaker. Audrey
nods, understanding.
I wouldn't normally be so curious, but Jack's is such a
first-rate joint I'd like to know more about how it's run.
PICK-UP
This may be your chance to find out; Blackie would like
to see you in her office.
Hey, great.
They move towards the door.
What's your name?
PICK-UP
Nancy.
Nancy, one more question ...
... don't your boobs start to hurt in this thing?
Nancy covers her mouth to hide her laugh and nods.
INT. BLACKIE'S OFFICE, - DAY
Audrey enters. Blackie, fixed up, looking cool and steely, is getting a shoulder rub from one
of the PICK-UPs. Another PICK-UP is kneeling in front of her, rubbing her feet.
Hey, boss, what's up?
The owner was a little disappointed in your performance
last night.
Oh? That's not what he told me.
He said you were witholding.
Okay, right away, here's my analysis of the guy, he's a
big cheese, girls are falling like ripe tomatoes every
time he walks into a room. Hey, a steady diet of caviar
would eventually kill you, right? I ask myself, what's
this guy missing? Conquest, the thrill of victory.
So you turned tail and made him chase you.
So to speak. You know the guy, am I right?
Did you find him attractive?
Attractive? Yes. I wouldn't say he was my type exactly.
Blackie rises and insinuates her way right up to Audrey. She touches Audrey's check.
And who would you say is your type, exactly?
Not you. No offense.
Blackie slaps her hard. Audrey raises her hand to slap back. Blackie catches her wrist.
Let's get one thing straight between us, princess ...
Okay.
Audrey hears the snick of a lock engaging. [She looks down.] Blackie's put a handcuff on her
wrist.
When you work for me, everybody's your type. Whether
you like it or not.
They look at each other.
EXT. SHERIFF'S STATION - DAY
Establish.
INT. SHERIFF'S STATION - DAY
Cooper, shirt off, ribs heavily taped, sits on the conference table, as Albert Rosenfield
examines him, using a stethescope. Albert's briefcase is open on the table.
How simple can I make it, Cooper? FBI Agent gets
shot; FBI Agent investigates. I'm in proximity,
working in the Seattle lab, I'm familiar with the
underlying case -
We don't know that they're related.
Right. You didn't pick up your towels so the chamber
maid plugged you.
Albert, the point is you're not going to win any local
popularity contests -
No, the point is Gordon Cole ordered me back here.
We follow orders. Breathe.
You were shot by a right-handed person, five foot six to
ten inches tall, at a distance of less than three feet. I'll
have ballistics this afternoon. You're blank on other
details?
Yes.
I'll take it from here. Meanwhile one of your principal
suspects was murdered in his hospital bed, the other was
shot in his living room. You tell me: vigilante justice or
just clean country living?
Albert, let me ask you something; where does this
attitude of generalized unpleasantness come from?
I'll get back to you.
If you don't want both eyes blackened on a regular basis,
while you're here I suggest you make some kind of peace
with rural life.
Great. After the square dance maybe we can go for a
hayride. I'll be at the hospital.
A knock. Andy Brennan enters.
Agent Cooper? You wanted to see me?
Have a seat, Andy.
Andy sits. Albert packs up his briefcase.
Andy, I wanted to have a brief chat about the events of
yesterday.
Okay.
When an officer's involved in something like this, it can
result in a great number of distractions in the workplace.
Uh-huh.
The thing to focus on is your daily routine; cling to it.
Let it become the tent pole around which you organize
your waking life.
Okay.
The job can provide the structure you need to survive,
while body and mind are left free to heal the wounds our
work occasionally, inevitably inflicts.
All right.
Even if committed in the line of duty and in a timely
and heroic fashion, the firing of our weapon, the shooting
of another human being, no matter how villainous the
individual may be, exacts a spiritual and emotional toll
on the officer.
Oh.
I thought you were talking about me and Lucy.
Cooper looks at him. At the door, Albert looks at Andy, back at Cooper.
Where do they keep his water dish?
Albert exits.
INT. SHERIFF'S STATION RECEPTION - DAY
Albert exits past Lucy, at the coffee station.
Welcome back.
For me? You shouldn't have.
Albert exits the station, passing PHILLIP MICHAEL GIRARD, the one-armed man, just
entering, muscling in his hefty sample case. He approaches Lucy, back at her desk. [Behind]
[him comes TOM, the mailman, a small, chatty fellow, carrying the day's load, including]
[a fair]-
[sized box.]
Excuse me, is Sheriff Truman here?
He is but he's busy at the moment, may I help you?
[Tom holds up the mail, shows Lucy the box.]
[TOM]
[Got a box here, Luce.]
[LUCY]
[Thanks, Tom, just set it down there on the floor in front]
[of the desk next to this gentleman.]
[TOM]
[Pretty good-sized box.]
I'm afraid I don't have an appointment.
[TOM]
[(a snoop)]
[Addressed to that Agent Cooper, care of the Sheriff.]
[What do you suppose this could be?]
[LUCY]
[I'm sure I don't know.]
The Sheriff asked me to stop by at my convenience, this
was the first convenient moment.
[TOM]
[Return address Washington, D.C., our nation's capital.]
[LUCY]
[(trying to get rid of him)]
[Thanks, Tom. Put the box down now.]
[TOM]
[I don't think it's fragile, least ways it's not marked]
[fragile.]
[LUCE]
[See you tomorrow, Tom.]
[TOM]
[You bet'cha.]
[Tom winks and exits.]
Will the Sheriff know what this is regarding?
I'm here to sell him some shoes.
INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY
JAMES HURLEY sits across from Sheriff Truman. A small tape recorder sits on the table
between them. We hear ...
LAURA'S VOICE
... uh-oh, here comes Mom with milk and cookies ... see
you later, Lawrence, bye-bye.
Tape hiss, then silence. Truman turns off the tape.
You got this tape from Dr. Jacoby's office.
Yes sir.
That's breaking and entering, James.
The door was open.
How did you know Jacoby wouldn't be there?
I knocked, nobody answered.
You were alone?
Yes.
Pause.
James, maybe you had your reasons. You realize we may
not see it that way. Especially with three ounces of
cocaine in your gas tank.
You know I didn't put that there.
I know what I'd like to believe. I also know you were
seeing Laura the last few weeks, which means you could
have been mixed up in anything.
Uncle Ed know I'm in here?
I haven't told him yet.
Nadine took an overdose of pills last night. She's in the
hospital. Ed's with her. I didn't want to tell him about
this.
She gonna be all right?
They don't know yet.
Poor Nadine.
James, if there's anything else you want to tell me, this
would be a good time.
Laura talks on her tape about a "mystery man."
The Red Corvette. Leo Johnson.
I think it's somebody else. Not Jacques Renault either.
Who?
I never put it together until I heard the tape, where she
said "this guy can really light my fire?" She said
something once about a friend of her father's.
Somebody she'd known since she was a kid. She said
this guy was really into fire.
What did she mean by that?
I don't know. Laura said a lot of nutty stuff. Most of
the time it went right by you.
Cooper enters the room, still walking strangely, followed by Hawk.
James, let's get right to the point. You found something
else in Jacoby's office. I want it. Give it to me.
James looks at Truman, looks back at Cooper. Cooper holds out his hand.
Come on.
James takes out the half-a-heart necklace, puts it in Cooper's hand.
That was with the tape.
Very good. Hawk, take James back to his cell.
You gonna book me?
We're going to talk about it.
Hawk leads James out. Truman stares at him. Cooper examines the necklace.
How'd you know he had the necklace?
Harry, do you know what they call it when preparation
meets opportunity?
Give me a minute ...
Luck. The residue of hard work. Come on, I've got
something to show you.
"Luck is the residue of hard work."
That's the ticket.
INT. SHERIFF'S STATION RECEPTION/CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY
Wearing, dark glasses, Donna is standing near the front desk, Lucy's behind the desk, Andy's
in the coffee area, as Cooper and Truman come around the corner.
Lucy, Andy, I need you in the conference room ...
Agent Cooper, Doc Hayward called from the hospital,
he said Dr. Jacoby is conscious and that if you wanted to
question him now you could come over to the hospital -
They're now in the conference room. The box that came for Cooper in the mail is open on
the table.
Thank you, Lucy. Is Donna here to see James?
Yes.
Cooper nods to Truman, who gets the message and exits the room. Cooper opens the box
and empties the contents on the table.
This is every edition of "Flesh World" published in the
last three years.
This is a picture of Theresa Banks, the first victim of our
killer, who you'll recall was found a year ago in the
southern part of the state. We already know Ronette and
Laura's picture appeared in ads in the magazine -
You want us to look for a picture of Theresa Banks.
Andy, you're way ahead of me.
Andy smiles pridefully at Lucy, then remembers how upset he is and cancels the look.
Lucy, we'll be at the hospital.
Diane, I've just received the back issues issues of "Flesh
World." Good work. It's nice to see some cooperation
with the law, especially from a company that preys on
human weaknesses -
Andy and Lucy look at each other. Look at the magazines. Any assignment but this.
INT. SHERIFF'S STATION HOLDING CELL AREA - DAY
Hawk unlocks the door, lets Donnna into the corridor outside James' cell, then quietly
retreats.
How you doing?
Did you tell them anything?
They haven't asked me anything.
She takes out a cigarette. Lights it. James is mildly surprised.
When did you start smoking?
I smoke every once in a while. Helps relieve the tension.
Uh-huh.
So, did you tell them anything?
I didn't tell them about you or Maddy.
Do they think Leo killed Laura?
I don't know what they think. How's Maddy?
She's all right. She hasn't said anything either. I heard
them say Jacoby's conscious, they're going to question
him.
Great.
Donna stubs the cigarette out on a bar, peeks at him over the dark glasses.
So ... don't you want to kiss me?
They look at each other. James leans forward and kisses her tenderly through the bars; she
responds agressively, grabs him, hot. He pulls back and looks at her, puzzled.
What's wrong?
Nothing's wrong.
Or is it just not okay for me to want you?
They look at each other, James a little uncertain. She smiles, pushes her dark glasses back up.
Get out soon, James.
She bites his finger and leaves the room. James watches her go.
INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY
BOBBY BRIGGS sneaks around a corner, avoids a nurse and waits outside the door to Shelly's
room. A DOCTOR exits the room. Bobby slips inside ...
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY
Bobby kicks out the doorstop, closes the door, moves to Shelly's bed. She's lying asleep.
Bobby takes a small bouquet from under his jacket, holds it under her nose. She stirs.
Hey, Sleeping Beauty.
She opens her eyes, sees him.
Bobby?
He kisses her. She lets herself be swept up for a moment, then remembers ...
Bobby, what are you doing here? What if somebody sees
you?
I don't care. I don't care anymore.
Leo's in the hospital. Somebody shot him.
I know. I mean, I heard. What happened to you?
Bobby, he tried to kill me. He knew about us, he took
me to the mill. He tied me up and left me there and
started the fire - he said he was gonna kill you.
Far chance. Are you all right?
Doctors seem to think so.
Shelly, the only way you're gonna get out of here pronto
is if you let Bobby be your doctor.
Now let's just have a look here, miss, shall we?
He lifts her bedclothes, separates her gown, looks down at her.
I think you're coming along splendidly.
He breathes once on the stethescope, erotically places it on her chest.
Deep breath ... that's a girl, deep breath ... that's fine ...
He swoops down for a kiss. She responds.
I'd say you're on your way to a complete recovery.
They kiss again. She laughs. They hear VOICES in the hallway outside.
You'd better go.
You're my girl.
I love you, Bobby.
He pauses,
I guess I love you, too.
He puts the flowers in a medical jar by her bedside and quickly splits to the hallway.
INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY
Bobby slips away as Cooper [, ALBERT] and Truman come around the corner. Cooper
[Truman] catches a glimpse of Bobby.
COOPER [TRUMAN]
Bobby Briggs.
TRUMAN [COOPER]
What's he doing here?
COOPER [TRUMAN]
He didn't look sick.
They look at each other. They move on, find Doc Hayward at the coffee bar.
[ALBERT]
[To see this kind of investigative genius at work, this a]
[real treat for me.]
[They look at him and move on. They find Ed Hurley at the coffee bar, across the hall from]
[Nadine's room.]
Doc, who was Bobby Briggs visiting?
I didn't even know he was here.
How's it going, Doc?
Thank god for the coffee bean.
Doc, you said a mouthful.
I still think you ought to be resting.
How does that saying go, is it no rest for the weary?
I thought it was no rest for the wicked.
I never could get that straight.
Cooper looks in the room across the hall at intensive care, at Ed Hurley, sitting by Nadine's
bedside.
Excuse me for a moment...
Cooper moves stiffly into the room across the hall.
INT. INTENSIVE HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY
Cooper knocks gently on the doorframe. Ed, seated by the bed, holding Nadine's hand. Ed
glances back at him.
Agent Cooper ...
Ed ... how is she [Nadine]?
She's in a coma. They say there's nothing else we can
do. She has to want to come back.
Cooper puts a hand on Ed's shoulder.
I don't know why I'm whispering ...
How are you?
All I can do is think about the things I should have said
or done.
Don't be too hard to yourself
I never believed in fate. I always thought you make
your own way, you take care of your own and you clean
up after yourself.
Sound advice.
[ALBERT]
[Farmer's almanac?].
So you see, for me to say to myself now that Nadine's
had an appointment with those pills from the get-go ...
just to make myself feel better ... that's about as low
as a man can sink. I saw this coming and didn't want to
believe it. What's worse is, I'm sitting here thinking
maybe there's some part of me that didn't want to stop
her. That's a full load.
When did you get married, Ed?
Right out of high school. See, Norma and I'd been together
all through school [four years]. Everybody figured we'd get
hitched, that'd be that, I barely knew Nadine to say hello
to. That spring, one bad weekend, Norma ran off with Hank.
I was so twisted up inside I couldn't see straight. When I
opened my eyes there was Nadine right in front of me.
There was something so ... sweet and helpless about her.
We drove all night. Ended up in some little town in
Montana, out past Great Falls ... I asked her to marry
me, half-joking, half-drunk, half-crazy. It was getting
light when we found a Justice of the Peace.
Norma, she ... she hadn't even slept with Hank. The
look on her face when she found out ...
Nadine and I, we went up to my Dad's old cabin, up in
Eagle Pass. Honeymoon. I was hoping maybe we'd get
around to talking about an anullment, a divorce,
anything. But Nadine was so happy.
The first day we went hunting pheasant. Wanted to bag our
own dinner. Nadine was a crack shot. We had two birds
already, but I felt good shooting, liked the way the sound
echoed and rolled down those hills. I fired. A piece of
buckshot skipped off a rock and caught her square in the eye.
She laid across my lap as I drove us back to town. She
never cried, never blamed me, never hated me for it.
'Couple months later, Norma married Hank.
I don't believe in fate. You make your bed. You sleep in it.
Cooper's moved. Ed strokes Nadine's cheek, moves a strand of hair. A soft knock on the
door. [Albert takes out a handkerchief, pretends to dab at his eyes.]
TRUMAN [HAWK'S VOICE]
Ed? Someone here to see you.
[He turns. James steps into view. We see Hawk in background. Ed and James embrace.]
[Cooper, Truman and Albert withdraw.]
He turns. James steps into the doorway. We see Hawk in background. Ed rises. He and
James embrace. Cooper withdraws from the room.
INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY
Cooper [, Albert] and Truman walk slowly away. Cooper shakes his head.
Take James back when they're done.
Hawk nods. Cooper and Truman continue on.
Poor Ed. Poor Nadine.
Yeah.
They move around the corner.
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY
Cooper and Truman enter. DR. JACOBY is lying in bed, hooked up to various monitors, but
sitting up, rested, alert. Doc Hayward is seated by his bedside. He rises, Cooper takes his
seat.
What happened to you?
I'll see about some coffee.
Thanks, Doc.
Cooper and Truman take seats beside Jacboy's bed.
Dr. Jacoby, I know you've been through quite a bit in the
last twenty-four hours. So have I. I don't want to
pussyfoot around with you anymore or see any more
magic tricks or hear anymore psychological mumbo-
jumbo. I want you to tell us how you came into
possession of this
Cooper reveals the half-a-heart necklace. Jacoby is saddened seeing it, holds it gently in his
hands.
Shall I start at the beginning?
That's as good a place as any.
Laura started coming to see me nine months ago. On her
own. Picked my name out of the phone book. I thought,
what in the world could be troubling such a bright,
pretty girl?
And?
Laura was, in essence, living a double life; two people,
self-divided, and those two selves were literally at war.
A war of attrition. And the part of her that was good
and loving was gradually losing ground.
Why?
Because the other self was stronger. The last time I saw
her, two days before her death, it seemed to me she had
reached a kind of peace with herself. I now believe that
what she had in fact arrived at was a decision to end her
life.
Suicide?
She didn't kill herself.
No. She allowed herself to be killed.
I don't understand.
She had reached a point where her good self believed
that death was the only way to prevent the other side
from complete domination. Death, in this sense,
represented a kind of victory.
Good Lord ...
The necklace ...
As I told you,the night after she died, I followed a man
in a red corvette.
Leo Johnson.
Correct. He eluded me near the Old Sawmill Road.
As I sat there cursing my lack of horsepower, a
motorcycle drove by -
James and Donna.
Which I discovered after following them, on foot, into
the woods. They spoke intently for a while, I couldn't
hear them, then they buried something in the ground and
drove away.
EXT. WOODS - NIGHT (FROM PILOT)
MOVING POV, a flashlight beam travels along the ground, finds the white rock. A gloved
hand reaches down and takes the necklace.
JACOBY'S VOICE
Unable to quench my curiosity, I dug down and found
the necklace. I had seen it around Laura's neck many
JACOBY'S VOICE (CONTINUED)
times. Perhaps ill-advisedly, I took it as a keepsake.
DR. JACOBY
Tears in his eyes, looking at the necklace in his hand.
This was her, you see. The necklace. A divided heart.
Pause. Cooper gently takes it from him.
One more thing. You were in this room with Jacques
when he was killed.
Yes. Heavily sedated.
Did you see or hear anything?
I can remember hearing the fire alarm go off.
That's all, I ... it's all like a dream, I'm sorry. Wait, I
... there was a smell, a peculiar smell.
When he died, Jacques voided his bowels.
No. This was like oil. Like scorched engine oil.
Truman and Cooper look at each other.
INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY
Cooper and Truman walk.
Harry, let's get a hold of Albert. We'll meet back at
the station. I'm ready to lay the whole thing out.
Rocks and bottles?
Chalk and the blackboard will be just fine.
They move around the corner out of sight.
TRUMAN'S VOICE
Maybe some doughnuts.
COOPER'S VOICE
That goes without saying.
We PICK UP and STAY WITH Norma, just leaving Shelly's room, calling back to her.
I'll come back later and bring you some soup. The food
in this place'll kill you quicker than most diseases.
You know, I got a real sweet tooth, too.
I've got some fresh choclate/peanut butter pie.
Norma, I'm serious: bring the whole pie.
Feel better, sweetie.
I do already.
Bye-bye.
Norma moves down the corridor. She stops outside Nadine's room, sees Ed at her bedside,
holding Nadine's hand. She watches them for a moment, then slowly pulls away from the
door.
EXT. DINER - DAY
Bobby Briggs enters the diner, looks around, moves to the counter and hears ...
MAJOR BRIGGS' VOICE
Son?
Bobby turns. The Major is sitting in a booth, enjoying a cup of coffee and some pie, a napkin
in his shirt front.
Dad?
An awkward moment.
Would you ... care to join me?
Bobby looks around. No escape.
Yeah, okay.
Bobby slumps into the booth across from his father.
How was school today?
School? Oh. Fine.
That's good.
The Major takes another bite of pie. A brief lull.
How was work?
Work? Work was good.
Another hiatus. More pie.
Dad?
Yes, son.
What is it that you do, exactly?
That's classified.
Oh.
Bobby, would you care for a piece of pie? The huckleberries are
particularly delicious today.
No, thanks.
Particularly fresh and delicious.
More pie and a pause.
This is so weird.
Oh, I've been coming here for Norma's pie and coffee
for many years. It's a short drive from the base, roughly
twelve minutes if the lights are with you. At one time, I
was nearly what you might call a habitue.
You don't say.
Finishing his pie, Major Briggs tidily wipes the corners of his mouth, pushes his plate away
and folds his napkin.
The gospel truth. Son, may I share something with you?
Not the pie.
A vision I had in my sleep last night. As distinguished
from a dream, which is a mere sorting and cataloguing
of the day's events by the subconscious; a vision, fresh
and clear as a mountain stream, the mind revealing itself
to itself.
Uh-huh.
In my vision I was on the verandah of a vast estate, a
palazzo of some fantastic proportion. There seemed to
emanate from it, a light from within this gleaming,
radiant marble. I ha known this place. I had, in fact,
been born and raised there and this was my first return, a
reunion with the deepest wellsprings of my being. As I
wandered about I noticed happily that the house had
been immaculately maintained and there had been
added to it a number of additional rooms but in a way
that blended in so seamlessly with the original
construction one would never detect any difference.
Returning to the house's grand foyer, there came a knock
at the door. I opened it. My son was standing there. It
wasn't you, but in a way it was. He was happy and
carefree, clearly living a life of deep harmony and joy.
We embraced, a warm and loving embrace, nothing
witheld. We were, in this moment, one. My vision
ended and I awoke with an overwhelming feeling of
optimism and confidence about you and your future.
That was my vision of you.
Really.
I'm so glad I've had this opporunity to share it with
you.
Major Briggs rises and extends a hand. He and Bobby shakes hands.
I wish you nothing but the very best in all things.
Thank you.
I'll see you later at home.
Okay.
Major Briggs moves off to pay his bill. Hank mans the register.
How was everything?
Exceptional, as always.
Great.
Major Briggs tips his hat, gives Bobby a happy wave and exits. Bobby waves back, sits in the
booth, trying to add this up to a round figure.
Norma enters the diner, clearly upset. She moves behind the counter, starts towards the
back.
How was she? ... Norma?
I can't talk right now.
She disappears into the kitchen. Hank gives a look to Bobby, a conspiritorial shrug
("women") before moving off. Bobby returns it, before remembering where he last saw
Hank.
BOBBY'S MEMORY - POV (007)
Looking out the window of Leo Johnson's house at Hank, just after he shot Leo.
Adding up another equation.
EXT. SHERIFF'S STATION - DAY
INT. SHERIFF'S STATION CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY
The blackboard is set up at one end of the room. Truman,
Hawk and Andy enter and take seats at the opposite end of the table. A tearful Lucy enters
with a platter of doughnuts which she sets down on the table. Everyone takes one.
Cooper looks at his watch. Albert enters the room, sets down his briefcase.
Oh. Was I late?
Have a seat, Albert. Albert, Harry, jump in any time;
we're going to reconstruct the last hours of Laura Palmer.
Cooper flips over the squeaky blackboard. A map of the town featuring a number of
symbols, houses, etc. have been drawn on the board.
Lucy, if you could man the pointer, I need to sit down.
He takes out his collapsible pointer, telescopes it to full length, hands it to Lucy and sits.
Lucy stands in front of the board, blows her nose.
We'll keep this simple, Lucy. When I say something,
you point to it.
I'll try my best.
Andy looks pained.
On the afternoon of February 23, Laura left school at
approximately 2:30 in the afternoon ...
Lucy points to a drawing of a building with "HIGH SCHOOL" printed beneath it.
She proceeded by family car to the Double R Diner.
Lucy points, etc.
INT. DOUBLE R DINER - DAY
MOS flashback. Laura picks up two large paper bags from Norma at the counter.
COOPER'S VOICE
... where she picked up nine hot meals and distributed
them to nine shut-ins around town as part of the Meals on
Wheels program.
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY
Lucy points to six small "buildings" scattered around the map.
At the conclusion of which she drove to the Blue Pine
Lodge ... where she gave Josie Packard an English lesson.
You might consider making them manditory for all the
townsfolk.
Just a suggestion.
Laura then returned home ... she dined with her parents.
At 7:00 that evening she drove to Bobby Briggs' house.
She and Bobby did homework together until 9:00.
What do you think, Sheriff: trigonometry?
Bobby claims it was civics.
That seems much more likely.
At which Laura drove home.
INT. PALMER LIVING ROOM - NIGHT
MOS flashback. Laura walks through the room, says good night to Sarah, and starts up the
stairs.
COOPER'S VOICE
She said goodnight to her mother and went upstairs. A
few minutes later she received a phone call.
Sarah looks at the phone.
COOPER'S VOICE
Mrs. Palmer did not see her leave, but according to
James Hurley she snuck out of the house on foot and met
him here near the Roadhouse on Highway 21 ...
EXT. ROAD - NIGHT
MOS flashback. Laura hops on the back of James bike and they ride off.
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY
Cooper holds up Laura's diary.
In her diary, Laura had written "nervous about meeting
"J" tonite." I now believe this was a reference to James
Hurley, she was nervous because she planned to tell him
she didn't want to see him anymore.
They drove up into the woods near the Old Sawmill
road ... their conversation lasted approximately two
hours. James drove them back down the hill.
EXT. ROAD - NIGHT
MOS flashblack. James stops the bike. Laura screams something at him and jumps off. He
tries to pursue her and she runs away.
COOPER'S VOICE
At 12:30, at the intersection of Sparkwood and 21,
Laura jumped off the bike and ran away.
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY
This much we know as fact. What follows now is our
best reconstruction.
Nods to Albert.
Laura left Sparkwood and 21 on foot, to an unspecified
location, where, as prearranged ...
EXT. ROAD - NIGHT
MOS flashback. Laura moves around a dark corner, comes upon Leo Johnson standing next
to his Corvette, smoking cigarette. He grabs her, roughs her up a little, indicates she's late.
She kisses him. He puts her in the car and they drive off.
ALBERT'S VOICE (CONTINUED)
... she met Leo Johnson, the person who called her earlier.
They drove off together.
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY
Do you still want me to point?
I so wish you would.
Yes, Lucy.
Leo Johnson was Laura's source for cocaine. He was also
involved in Laura's bunco scheme, come-ins for cash in
"Flesh World" magazine, with ads featuring pictures of
both Laura and Ronette Pulaski.
He holds up an order edition of "Flesh World" pointing out the item in question.
And thanks to Deputy Andy Brennan's fine eye for
detail, we now know that an ad featuring a picture of
Theresa Banks, the killer's first victim ran in the six
editions of "Flesh World" before her death a year ago.
Under Laura's ring fingernail we found the letter "r".
Lucy points to the letter "r" written on the board, then the letter "t."
Under Theresa's ring fingernail was found the letter "t."
Positive triangulate linkage.
Andy beams. Lucy sniffles again.
Good work, Andy. Woof.
Leo drove Laura to a location somewhere near the Pearl
Lakes off Highway J, at the foot of the trail leading to
Jacques Renault's cabin.
Lucy points again.
... they met Jacques and Ronnette Pulaski here and
climbed the trail to Jacques' cabin, where they were
heard passing by the cabin of Margaret the Log Lady.
They reached the cabin at approximately one a.m. They
partied; drugs and liquor were consumed. Laura was
tied up and had sexual relations with both Leo and
Jacques. Waldo, Jacques's bird, was let out of his cage
and attacked Laura. Leo and Jacques fought. Jacques
went outside and passed out. When he came to, Leo and
the girls were gone.
Cooper rises stiffly.
The Log Lady heard a Third Man pass by her cabin,
go up the hill. This Third Man witnessed the events
in the cabin, watching through a window.
There were footprints outside the one window with a
clear view of the room.
I believe that after his fight with Jacques, Leo left the
cabin, alone, walked back to his car and drove off.
Laura was still tied up when the Third Man entered the
cabin.
It wasn't Jacques or Leo?
Laura had ten thousand dollars in her safe deposit box. I
believe that was drug money she owed to Leo. Leo
wouldn't have killed her without first collecting that
money. Leo also has an ironclad alibi for the night
Theresa Banks was murdered. He was in jail, in Twin
Peaks, on an assault charge.
The Third Man took Laura and Ronette to the train car,
here, on foot, a mile and half away.
Lucy points.
He wore surgical gloves, he was thorough, he was careful.
The girls did not struggle until they were inside.
Suggesting they knew the man.
They were tied up again at the train car; Laura for the
second time, Ronette for the first.
Finley's fine twine.
A generic household brand, available in most stores. He
was also smart.
INT. TRAIN CAR - NIGHT
MOS flashback. Lit by a candle. We see a SHADOWY FIGURE strike Ronette. She falls
to the ground. We see the figure advance on Laura. A knife gleams.
ALBERT'S VOICE
The Man struck Ronette once with a blunt object,
knocking her unconscious. Then he killed Laura. He
took his time; over an hour.
INT. CONFERENCE ROOM
During the course of which, Ronette came to, managed
to crawl out of the cabin into the woods and eventually
to safety. The Man didn't know or didn't care that
Ronette was gone.
He cleaned up. He built a mound of dirt, just as he had
with Theresa Banks. He left a note written in Laura's
blood. Washed his hands in the rainwater pooled
outside. My men also found these outside ...
Holds up an evidence bag containing water damaged scraps of paper.
Scraps of paper. Hand torn, scattered around the area.
Ink washed away by the rain. Commercial quality.
From what?
Letters? Personal papers?
Attempting to implicate Leo Johnson, he wrapped
Laura's body in plastic that was taken from Leo's house
or car. He carried the body to Elk River a quarter
of a mile away and threw her in.
Lucy is too saddened to point. Cooper points.
The body floated downriver into Black Lake and
washed up outside the Blue Pine Lodge.
EXT. BLACK LAKE - DAWN (FROM PILOT)
The body lying on the rocky shore.
INT. CONFERENCE- ROOM.
Harry, Lucy and the deputies are speechless. Andy starts to cry. Lucy wants to embrace him,
realizes she can't and has to leave the room.
... I'm sorry.
Harry pats him gently on the back.
It's what we call a three-hankie crime.
You think you're so smart - why don't you just shut up!
Everyone's surprised by Andy's outburst, no one more so than Andy. Andy exits. Albert
smiles.
Who's the Third Man?
That's the next thing we have to find out.
EXT. BLUE PINE LODGE - NIGHT
Truman's cruiser pulls up outside.
INT. BLUE. LODGE - NIGHT
Pete and Harry Truman enter. Pete's had better days.
I sure appreciate the ride, Harry.
No problem.
Smoke inhalation's a nasty business; I feel like
somebody taped my lips to the tailpipe of a bus.
Pete sits wearily down at the kitchen counter, wipes his brow.
Can I get you something to wet your whistle?
I'm feeling a little reckless; there's be a couple 'a ginger
beers in the fridge.
Truman gets the drinks. Pete finds a note the counter, in an envelope addressed to him.
So Pete ... where the hell is Josie?
Truman sets down the drink on the counter. Pete opens the envelope.
Maybe this'll tell you.
"Dear Pete, I had to leave the town on an emergency of
business to Seattle. I will phone you when I arrive.
Hope you did a good day at the mill; there is ginger
beer in the refridge ... love, Josie." There you go.
When did you see her last?
I didn't see her at all yesterday. 'Note's dated
yesterday afternoon.
No forwarding number? No way to tell her about the
mill?
No. She heads over to Seattle once every three months
or so. Want my opinion she goes there to indulge a
secret vice.
What is it?
Shopping. Comes back with half a department store.
He chuckles. Sees Truman hasn't moved off his concern.
Guess we're both a little sweet on her.
Truman nods. Next piece of business.
Pete. We haven't found Catherine.
Yeah. 'Figured.
The last place anybody saw her's under fifty tons of
twisted steel. It could take weeks to sift through. You
can hope for the best, but you ought to prepare or the
worst.
Pete nods. It hits him.
Oh dear...
If there's anything I can do to help ...
Pause.
Always thought I'd be the first to go. If you'd laid
odds on the last person standing in a nuclear war I
would'a bet on her.
I'm so sorry.
No point in mincing words. She was hell to live with.
But once there was a little bit of heaven there, too.
She was tough.
Oh God. This'll take a while to sink in, I suppose.
Suppose it will.
Oh God. I loved her. God help her miserable soul, I
loved her.
He breaks down. Truman tries to comfort him. The phone rings. Truman answers it.
Packard residence.
INT. GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT
The ASIAN MAN we saw checking into the hotel in episode 006 is on a phone in the lobby.
Could I speak to Josie Packard please?
I'm sorry, she's not here right now -
Can you tell me when she'll be back?
She's out of town. I can try and get a message to her;
who should I say is calling?
The Asian Man hangs up. We stay with him. He thinks. He picks up the phone and dials.
I'd like to place an international call please ... collect to
Hong Kong.
Behind him, elevator doors open; Ben and Jerry emerge. Jerry's carrying a small box. We
stay with them.
- I read all about it in this French magazine they take
the entire head, they dip it in this kind of blancmange
pudding, roll it in oats, stuff it full of walnuts, hot rocks
and a spice bouquet, wrap it in a papilliote, seal the
edges with a sugar glaze and bake it under glass.
Sounds incredible.
It is to die for.
Have you seen Audrey today?
No, I haven't.
They head down the corridor.
INT. BEN HORNE'S OFFICE - NIGHT
Someone's waiting in the office. As Ben and Jerry enter, the figure turns; Hank Jennings.
[ILLICIT MILL LEDGER ON DESK]
- open a separate offshore account, see if the sons of
Odin will go for a wire transfer directly to Grand
Cayman -
No paper trail.
Jerry sets his box down and starts to carefully open it.
Not even a ripple; we run the cash through a quick spin
and rinse, convert it to bearer bonds which we are
prepared to hand over to her as soon Josie gives us a John
Hancock -
- and where exactly is the fragrant pearl of the East?
She took a powder last night.
Prearranged?
She wanted a little distance between her and the smell of
smoke. She'll be back as soon as it blows over.
Sound strategy. You're keeping a tight leash?
I gave her something to think about.
Your other business with her is satisfactorily concluded?
The short answer is yes.
Jerry offers the contents of his box: candied apples.
Boys, a local work of genius: tree-ripened Granny
Smith's, dipped in hot, hand-pulled creme caramel,
dusted with crushed nuts and a dark coco powder.
Enjoy.
They each eagerly take one and bite in. The caramel slows down their speech.
A phenomenal taste sensation.
Huh? Huh?
Very good.
Next business: Leo Johnson.
He's in a coma. Looks like brain damage.
With Leo, how could they tell?
Why isn't he on the last train to the Elysian Fields?
I caught him center-shot with a .44. Couldn't risk going
inside. The neighborhood was hot, I had to sneak past
patrols as it was.
Did he see you?
Negative. He was chopping wood.
Inside?
Hey. You know Leo.
What else? Catherine Packard: dead?
My call put her in the drying shed when it went up.
Sounds like she's buried in the wreckage.
Heat like that they'll be lucky to find teeth.
Marvelous. If they don't hang the arson on the late,
lamented Catherine and her "co-conspirator" Leo I'll
give up sex.
That's ... confidence.
Hank lifts Catherine's illicit mill ledger off the desk.
What do we do with the ledger?
Hank ... leave the creative thinking to the brothers Horne.
You're a bicep; relax until we say flex ...
Jerry feels Hank's muscle; impressive.
You guys.
EXT. PALMER HOUSE - NIGHT
Establish.
INT. PALMER HOUSE - NIGHT
Sarah and Leland are dressed for an evening out. Leland is deftly spinning Sarah around the
room with a few light dance steps, humming some public domain tune. Sarah is smiling and
enjoying it in spite of herself.
Maddy and Donna watch from the doorway to the room. Leland finishes the dance.
Come on, doll, let's paint the town.
Leland, I don't know what's gotten in to you.
That old black magic's got me in its spell.
Something has, that much is for sure.
Girls, you should have seen Sarah dance. We used to win
all the dance contests down at the Grange Hall; the other
couples would see us coming and just walk off the floor.
Leland ...
It's true - isn't it true?
We won't be late.
Say hi to the Haywards for me.
I'll probably see you over there.
Leland gives Maddy a kiss, dances Sarah through the archway towards the front door,
humming another tune.
I half expected him to start dancing up the walls like
Fred Astaire.
It's nice to see them enjoying themselves.
Donna pulls out a list; they sit on the sofa.
So listen, I got hold of the list of Meals on Wheels
clients that Laura used to visit. It used to be nine, now
it's eight since old Mr. Pendergast died.
What are you gonna do?
I told Norma I'd take over the deliveries tomorrow,
I'll spend some time with everybody on her route ...
She unfolds a small town map.
I put x's on all the addresses. One of these eight
people must have sent me that note; that means they
know something. We just have to figure out who it was.
As Donna concentrates over her map, Maddy feels an odd, disquieting feeling come over her.
She tries to shake it off, can't. SOUND of Donna's voice grows fainter.
Laura never talked much about them. Guess we know by
now that doesn't necessarily mean there wasn't anything
weird about them ...
Maddy turns slowly and looks into the alcove of the living room. Standing there, stock still,
is BOB, the grey-haired man we've seen in Cooper's dream and Mrs. Palmer's vision.
Maddy's frozen with fear. Donna doesn't immediately notice. Maddy starts to tremble,
unable to speak. Bob doesn't move. He just looks at her.
Donna finally notices her distress.
Maddy? ... Maddy?
Huh?
What is it? What's wrong?
Maddy just looks at her, looks back. Bob is gone.
EXT. HAYWARD'S HOUSE - NIGHT
Establish.
INT. HAYWARD'S HOUSE - NIGHT
Dinner is just breaking up in the dining room. Sarah Palmer is helping EILEEN HAYWARD
clear the table.
Here, you can just put some of the dishes in my lap.
Oh, no, I don't mind, it's no trouble.
Now Eileen, I've been looking forward to one of your
deserts all day; I hope you won't disappoint me.
Leland, you know me better than that.
I'll give you a hand.
Eileen wheels towards the kitchen; Sarah follows.
Let's put on a pot of decaf.
I've got both if you want regular.
They're gone. Leland looks over at Doc. Doc's got an elbow on the table, propping up his
chin. He's sound asleep. His chin slips, he wakes with a start.
Long day, Will?
I feel like I've sat through back to back operas.
Terrible about the mill.
They say over a hundred and fifty jobs may be lost.
Awful.
I suppose that opens the door for Ben Horne and his big
development plans.
As his lawyer, and yours, of course I can't comment.
As your doctor, Leland, what the hell happened to your
hair?
Isn't it strange? I woke up this morning, looked in the
mirror and there it was, literally changed overnight.
Considering all you've been through ...
It's a funny thing, though. Seeing it I seemed to realize
I'd turned a corner somehow. I felt a great deal of
sadness still, yes, but it wasn't as overwhelming; I
actual physcially felt as if a large weight had been
lifted from my heart.
Perhaps it has.
Perhaps it has. God, I feel like singing.
That would be very nice. We always enjoy hearing you
sing, Leland.
You know me, Will; it was either law school or
Broadway.
Eileen and Sarah return from the kitchen, bearing coffee and desert.
Eileen, Leland would like to favor us with a song.
Oh, I'd really enjoy that.
Sarah?
Of course, dear.
Let's move into the living room, shall we?
They do. Doc sits facing the piano. Eileen beside him. Sarah sits down at the piano. Leland
whispers something to her, she nods.
Excuse me just one second.
Leland disappears into the foyer for a moment. Sarah gets a signal from him and starts to
play the intro to "Get Happy."
Leland enters with a hat and cane. He sings "Get Happy," hoofs a little, not inexpertly. Doc
and Eileen seem to enoy it a great deal. As he enters the second verse Leland's tempo picks
up and accelerates, heading towards manic. Sarah has trouble keeping up.
Doc and Eileen try to smile through it. At the end of the second verse, at fever pitch, Leland
keels over and passes out on the floor. Doc and Sarah rush to him.
Oh dear ...
Doc loosens Leland's collar, slaps his checks.
Sarah, if you could just get me my bag.
Eileen is alreay wheeling her way to them with it.
Got it right here.
I'm sure it's nothing serious ...
Doc rummages through his bag for some smelling salts.
He's been singing all day. Mostly old songs.
Doc waves some of the salts in front of Leland's nose. He immediately revives, looks up at
them all and smiles.
I feel fine. I feel fine.
They look at him.
EXT. ONE-EYED JACK'S - NIGHT
Establish.
INT. ONE-EYED JACK'S BEDROOM NIGHT
A frightened and bewildered, and slightly brusied, Audrey lies on her bed.
Agent Cooper ... are you there? ... I left you a note,
didn't you read my note? ... I slipped it under your
door, you must have seen it ... well, I'm up here at One-
Eyed Jack's, and to be perfectly honest, I think I'm in a
little over my head ...
Not that I can't handle it. I mean, if I'm going to help
you with your investigations, I'm sure I'll be put into
situations a lot dangerous than this on a fairly
regular basis. It's just, you know, the first time out I
wouldn't mind a little expert guidance ...
Just so you know, there is a connection between Horne's
department store and One-Eyed Jack; it's my father. He
owns the place. A little ball of sleeze named Battis
recruits some of the girls at the perfume counter.
Tomorrow I'm going to try to find out if Laura and
Ronette came up here ...
I hope you won't think any less of me for trying to help
you. I promise I only did it with the best intentions.
And if there's anyway in the world you can hear me
tonight ... please help me ...
INT. COOPER'S ROOM - NIGHT
Cooper exits his bathroom, moving very stiffly. He sits painfully on the side of the bed and
takes a handful of aspirins with his glass of warm milk. He picks up his tape recorder.
Diane, it's 11:55 p.m., approximately nineteen hours
since the shooting incident that nearly caused me to
make a premature purchase of the proverbial farm.
There's every reason to think I'll make a complete
recovery, which I would like to get a good jump out of
the blocks on by sleeping solidly for at least eight or
nine hours ... a man can only go so long without
submitting to a period of rest ...
As he speaks, he puts in his ear plugs.
... for as we know from experiments performed on
American GI's during the Korean War, sleep deprivation
is a one-way ticket to temporary psychosis and I'm
working on a three day jag. I got so goofy last night as I
was lying here wondering whether I was going to live or
die that I thought I saw a giant in my room, but perhaps
I'll save that story for another time.
This is me, room 315 of the Great Northern Hotel,
signing off.
Cooper puts a sleep mask and turns off the lamp. He lies still for a moment. He thinks he
feels a weight settle on the end of the bed. He turns, senses sometrhing. He lifts the corner of
the sleep mask and sees ...
... the Giant is back. Sitting at the end of the bed.
Sorry to wake you.
I wasn't asleep. I'm not asleep. Then I'm not dreaming.
I forgot to tell you something.
You were right about Jacques. The big rubber bag.
The things I tell you will not be wrong.
Cooper's about to ask another question. The Giant raises his huge hand to still him.
Better to listen than to talk.
I believe you.
Don't search for all the answers at once. A path is
formed by laying one stone at a time.
Coopers nods.
One person saw the Third Man. Three have seen him,
yes, but not his body. One only. Known to you. Ready
now to speak.
Coopers wants to speak, bites his tongue. Nods.
One more thing. You forgot something.
What?
The Giant waves goodbye to him.
Cooper leans over to turn on the lamp. The Giant is gone.
a wider shot of Cooper sitting up in bed, revealing the note left by Audrey,
large in foreground, either under the bed or on a table across the room.
INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - NIGHT
Moving down the silent, dark hallway.
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT
Moving towards RONETTE PULASKI, lying in bed in intensive care. She stirs restlessly.
We move in on her in such a way that indicates we're entering her thoughts ...
INT. TRAIN NIGHT
Ronette's POV; sound and picture distorted and strange. We see what she
sees.
Laura kneeling nearby on the floor of the train car.
Two surgically gloved hands frantically forming a small mound of dirt.
Blood dripping.
A hand ripping the half-heart necklace from around Laura's neck.
A finger dipped in blood, writing the note.
A hand picking up a heavy wrench and advancing towards us.
And the wrench is raised threateningly above us.
And we see him. Bob, the grey-haired man. He swings the wrench down at us.
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT
Ronette's eyes open and dart around wildly. She makes a horrible sound. She's out of the
coma.